https://emorywheel.com/emory-lifts-shelter-in-place-order-on-oxford-campus-following-police-emergency/
Emory lifts shelter-in-place order on Oxford campus following ‘police emergency’ | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Emory lifts shelter-in-place order on Oxford campus following ‘police emergency’
Posted by
Matthew Chupack and Sarah Davis
|
3 days ago
|
Campus Life
,
Crime & Breaking News
,
News
,
Oxford
|
0
Emory University alerted the Emory community on April 14 at 2:21 p.m. that people on the University’s Oxford College campus should shelter in place, stating that there is a “police emergency” at Murdy Hall, which is a residence hall. The Emory Police Department (EPD) issued an “all clear” at 3:47 p.m.
The shelter-in-place was issued while EPD and local law enforcement agencies investigated a report that an individual with a handgun was on the Oxford campus, EPD Deputy Chief Burt Buchtinec wrote in an April 14 email to the Emory community. Police found no threat to the Emory community after completing the investigation.
“I understand that many at Emory — students, faculty, staff, parents and families — were deeply shaken and concerned by this experience,” Buchtinec wrote. “I want you to know that the actions of the Emory Policy Department were pursued as a cautionary measure. We responded quickly to keep everyone as safe as possible.”
EPD has still not released information about the investigated individual’s relationship to the University or how this person gained access to the dorm.
Police cars park outside Murdy Hall following “police emergency.” Photo by Clement Lee/Sports Editor
Molly Jones (24Ox), who sheltered in the Oxford College Library along with about 30 other students, said that she feels the University has not provided “adequate information” to students during this incident.
“I still kinda feel unsafe being on campus because I don’t know if the building has been evacuated, I don’t know if they found anyone,” Jones said. “I still don’t have any confirmation of what just happened, and so I still feel unsafe on campus.”
Julia Detrani (24Ox) said that she was walking to her room in Murdy when she first heard the news of “a police emergency” in the dorm.
“I was pretty worried, too, at first hoping everyone was OK,” Detrani said. “But, I was also wondering if it was miscommunication between people.”
Phillip Wong (24Ox) was on his way from math class when he heard the news. Wong said he was “shocked” by the amount of police on the scene. A Wheel reporter counted 20 police cars parked outside of Murdy Hall.
“I’m an international student, so this is the first time I see so much police since I came here,” Wong said.
Murdy resident Nancy Puente (24Ox) expressed frustration with the University’s communication during the shut down. She said that her roommate who was in the dorm during the shelter-in-place order hid under her bed.
The University’s initial tweet at 2:21 p.m. did not specify a location for the emergency.
“Emory Emergency: There is a police emergency on Oxford College Campus at [BUILDING OR ADDRESS],” the tweet read. “Avoid the area. Updates to follow.”
A corrected tweet that included Murdy Hall as the location was shared within the same minute via a text alert to the Emory community.
Murdy resident Isabella Adeola (24Ox) also sheltered in place in the library. Although the University announced that the incident occurred in Murdy, she heard conflicting information that there might also be a danger posed to Elizer Hall, the dorm next door to Murdy.
“I know a lot of people that live in [Murdy] and also a lot of people that live in Elizer, so [I felt] scared, confused, unnerved,” Adeola said. “And Emory, I guess I’m frustrated that I don’t know what’s going on, but I understand that they can’t really say everything because they have to actually act and don’t want to freak people out. But students are saying things, and I’m not sure what’s right.”
This incident follows a
bomb threat
in Oxford’s Jolley Residential Center in September 2022 and a
shelter-in-place
issued on the Atlanta campus in May 2022 after reports of a possible armed suspect on campus.
This article will be updated as more information becomes available.
Clement Lee (24Ox) and Halle Wulff (24Ox) contributed reporting.
Update (4/14/2023 at 5:40 p.m.): This story was updated to include information from EPD Deputy Chief Burt Buchtinec’s email to the Emory community.
Matthew Chupack
+ posts
Executive Editor | Matthew Chupack (he/him, 24C) is from Northbrook, Illinois, majoring in sociology & religion and minoring in community building & social change on a pre-law track. Outside of the Wheel, Chupack is an exec member for Emory Behind the Glass. In his free time, he enjoys exploring cities, playing with his puppy and listening to country music.
Matthew Chupack
https://emorywheel.com/author/matthew-chupack/
Anthony Ray Hinton to deliver 2023 Commencement address
Matthew Chupack
https://emorywheel.com/author/matthew-chupack/
1,095 days: 3 years of COVID-19 response at Emory
Matthew Chupack
https://emorywheel.com/author/matthew-chupack/
Crime Report: Aggravated assault, public indecency, dating violence
Matthew Chupack
https://emorywheel.com/author/matthew-chupack/
Emory plans to develop Indigenous studies program in partnership with the College of the Muscogee Nation
Sarah Davis
+ posts
Sarah Davis (she/her) (22Ox, 24C) is from Austin, Texas. Previously, she interned with The Covington News and Austin Monthly Magazine. This summer, she will intern with The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. In her free time, you can find her mapping new running routes and exploring the Atlanta coffee scene.
Sarah Davis
https://emorywheel.com/author/sarahdavis/
Flo Rida named Dooley’s Week concert artist
Sarah Davis
https://emorywheel.com/author/sarahdavis/
Emory polling station is accessible, fast on Election Day
Sarah Davis
https://emorywheel.com/author/sarahdavis/
Emory students represent new generation of poll workers
Sarah Davis
https://emorywheel.com/author/sarahdavis/
Former Glenn Memorial Church members call for full inclusion as national denomination splits over LGBTQ acceptance
Share:
Previous
We’re still marching: the past, present and future of Title IX at Emory
Next
Emory, Georgia Tech joint PhD student makes best of many worlds
About The Author
Matthew Chupack and Sarah Davis
Related Posts
‘Women, Life, Freedom’: Emory unpacks women’s rights in Iran
October 13, 2022
Honor Council Cases | 9.19.14
September 19, 2014
Oxford Hosts Sexual Assault Awareness Week, Consent Campaign
April 23, 2015
Emory Doctors Oppose Proposal to Reallocate Livers
November 9, 2016
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
