https://emorywheel.com/anthony-ray-hinton-to-deliver-2023-commencement-address/
Anthony Ray Hinton to deliver 2023 Commencement address | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Anthony Ray Hinton to deliver 2023 Commencement address
Posted by
Matthew Chupack and Madi Olivier
|
Mar 28, 2023
|
Campus Life
,
Crime & Breaking News
,
News
|
0
Activist and writer Anthony Ray Hinton will deliver this year’s Commencement address before the Class of 2023. Courtesy of Rob Liggins
Activist and writer Anthony Ray Hinton
will deliver the keynote address and receive an honorary Doctor of Letters degree at Emory University’s 178th Commencement Ceremony on May 8. University President Gregroy Fenves announced the decision in a March 28 email to Emory students.
Hinton
is well-known for the 28 years he spent on Alabama’s death row after being wrongfully convicted of murdering two fast food workers in 1998 on the basis that the revolver used in the murders, as well as a third uncharged crime, was taken from his mothers’ home. The Equal Justice Initiative took on his case, and in 2002, three top firearms examiners testified that the revolver could not be matched to the murders. However, state courts did not reexamine the case, leaving Hinton imprisoned for over 10 more years.
“The courage Mr. Hinton showed on Death Row is almost impossible to comprehend,” Fenves wrote. “His freedom was taken from him, yet he found peace and forgiveness and has dedicated himself to spreading truth and light in the world.”
The
U.S. Supreme Court
ultimately reversed the lower courts’ decisions in 2012 to grant Hinton a new trial. The Alabama Department of Forensic Sciences confirmed the findings that the bullets used in the murders could not be tied to the revolver from Hinton’s mother’s home, leading a judge to ultimately dismiss the charges.
For the first time in 28 years, Hinton was a free man. As he walked out of the Jefferson County Jail in Birmingham, Ala. in 2015, Hinton told his family that “the sun does shine,” according to the
Equal Justice Initiative
. Three years later, Hinton published his best-selling
book
about his experiences, “The Sun Does Shine: How I Found Life and Freedom on Death Row.”
Shivani Kumar (23B) said she is glad Hinton’s story is receiving attention, as she considers his situation an “outrageous problem.”
“Things aren’t going to change if these stories aren’t told,” Kumar said. “So the fact that Emory, an institution of so much prominence, has given the microphone to Mr. Hinton, it’s a wonderful thing.”
Hinton now works as an Equal Justice Initiative community
educator
, serving as “a tireless and powerful advocate for abolition of the death penalty.” He also
works
with
LifeLines
, a U.K. organization dedicated to supporting death row inmates in the United States with letter writing,
which Anushree Jain (23B) said is inspiring.
“It takes a lot of mental strength and mental willpower to actually get through times like that,” Jain said. “Seeing him take steps to … do prison reform and all the other equal justice initiatives and things like that he’s doing is just very admirable.”
James Cox Kennedy and Sarah Kenan Kennedy will also receive honorary degrees alongside Hinton. James and Sarah Kennedy, who are married, will each receive a Doctor of Humane Letters degree for their
dedication to improving “the quality of life in our community,
” according to the press release.
James Kennedy is chairman emeritus of Cox Enterprises and chairman of the James M. Cox Foundation. The foundation has four primary
focus areas
— conservation and environment, early childhood education, empowering families and individuals for success and health — and supplies
grants
to capital campaigns and special projects related to these fields.
Including both personal and foundational
donations
, James Kennedy has given more than $60 million to Emory to fund Alzheimer’s disease and cancer research, as well as promote patient-centered care. He has also donated more than
$2 million
to the Marcus Autism Center, which collaborates with
Emory
.
James Cox Kennedy and Sarah Kenan Kennedy each will receive a Doctor of Humane Letters degree from Emory University. Courtesy of Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University
Sarah Kennedy serves on the Executive Advisory Council of the Emory Brain Health Center as a civic and community
leader
. Along with her family, Sarah Kennedy has supported Alzheimer’s research at Emory after her late
father
battled the disease. In 2011, Sarah and James Kennedy donated
$5 million
to the cause. The pair principally funded an Emory
clinical trial
for a drug treatment intervention against mild cognitive impairment, which is often seen before patients fully develop Alzheimer’s.
In recent years, Emory’s commencement speakers have included actor
Tyler Perry
in 2022, former
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director
Anthony Fauci
in 2021 and civil rights lawyer
Bryan Stevenson
in 2020.
Last year, Emory awarded Sally Yates and Louise Glenn with
honorary degrees
. Yates served as Acting Attorney General in former U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration for 10 days, before she was
dismissed
for instructing the Department of Justice to not defend
Executive Order 13769
, which temporarily banned the admission of refugees and barred travel from multiple Muslim-majority countries. Glenn is the founding trustee of The Wilbur and Hilda Glenn Family Foundation, which has financially supported
initiatives
like establishing the Emory Glenn Family Breast Center, the Emory Winship Cancer Institute’s first named center for a specific type of cancer.
Emory is among the last of its peer institutions to announce a 2023 commencement speaker. The University of Pennsylvania will host “Abbott Elementary” star
Quinta Brunson
. White House Press Secretary
Karine Jean-Pierre
will speak at Rice University’s (Texas) commencement and Marvel Studios Producer and President
Kevin Fiege
will do the same at the University of Southern California’s commencement.
Hinton wrote in the press release that he is “honored” to deliver Emory’s Commencement address.
“I always value the opportunity to share what I’ve learned with young people getting ready to embark on their own journeys,” Hinton wrote. “I want to make sure young people know that even on the nights where there are tears (and there will be those nights), the sun will shine again.”
Kheyal Roy-Meighoo (23C) added that she hopes Emory will continue Hinton’s legacy of prison reform after Commencement.
“I hope that having him speak here is the first in many steps that Emory takes to resist the expansion of this very unfair criminal justice system and policing system that is … especially present in the American South.”
Update (3/29/23 at 11:07 a.m.): This article was updated to include comments from
Shivani Kumar (23B), Anushree Jain (23B) and Kheyal Roy-Meighoo (23C).
Correction (4/7/23 at 2:23 p.m.): An original version of this article stated that
Shivani Kumar (23B) called the U.S. prison system an “outrageous problem.” In fact, she called Anthony Ray Hinton’s situation an “outrageous problem,” not the U.S. prison system.
Matthew Chupack
+ posts
Executive Editor | Matthew Chupack (he/him, 24C) is from Northbrook, Illinois, majoring in sociology & religion and minoring in community building & social change on a pre-law track. Outside of the Wheel, Chupack is an exec member for Emory Behind the Glass. In his free time, he enjoys exploring cities, playing with his puppy and listening to country music.
Matthew Chupack
https://emorywheel.com/author/matthew-chupack/
Emory lifts shelter-in-place order on Oxford campus following ‘police emergency’
Matthew Chupack
https://emorywheel.com/author/matthew-chupack/
1,095 days: 3 years of COVID-19 response at Emory
Matthew Chupack
https://emorywheel.com/author/matthew-chupack/
Crime Report: Aggravated assault, public indecency, dating violence
Matthew Chupack
https://emorywheel.com/author/matthew-chupack/
Emory plans to develop Indigenous studies program in partnership with the College of the Muscogee Nation
Madi Olivier
+ posts
News Editor | Madi Olivier (she/her, 25C) is from Highland Village, Texas, and is planning on majoring in psychology and minoring in rhetoric, writing and information design on the pre-law track. Outside of the Wheel, she can be found listening to Hozier and Rainbow Kitten Surprise, binge-watching Criminal Minds or trying to pet the Emory cats.
Madi Olivier
https://emorywheel.com/author/madi-olivier/
Flo Rida named Dooley’s Week concert artist
Madi Olivier
https://emorywheel.com/author/madi-olivier/
1,095 days: 3 years of COVID-19 response at Emory
Madi Olivier
https://emorywheel.com/author/madi-olivier/
SGA presidential candidates respond to Title IX, misogyny discourse on Fizz
Madi Olivier
https://emorywheel.com/author/madi-olivier/
Meyers, Dubinski elected SGA president, vice president in runoff election
Share:
Previous
Meet the  Indian artists advancing a new era of independent music
Next
Oxford cultural clubs organize first Taiwanese “Night Market”
About The Author
Matthew Chupack and Madi Olivier
Related Posts
Accounting department organizes blood drive in honor of late professor
September 22, 2021
C-SPAN Interactive Bus Tour Comes to Emory
December 6, 2012
Scholar Strike Emphasizes ‘Emory Has a Long Way to Go’ Regarding Racial Justice
September 12, 2020
Uncertified SGA Presidential Election Results Show Ding Victory
March 30, 2021
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
