https://emorywheel.com/keanu-reeves-cements-his-place-in-action-genre-with-john-wick-chapter-4/
Keanu Reeves cements his place in action genre with ‘John Wick: Chapter 4’ | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Keanu Reeves cements his place in action genre with ‘John Wick: Chapter 4’
Posted by
Yashonandan Kakrania
|
Apr 4, 2023
|
A & E
,
Film
|
0
This review contains spoilers.
Mess with a dog? Prepare to face John Wick’s wrath.
“John Wick: Chapter 4” arrived in theaters on March 24, marking the end of one of the most epic tales of revenge and redemption ever told on the big screen. The story begins with a man avenging the death of his beloved dog, but the franchise has evolved into a sprawling, exciting saga of John Wick’s (Keanu Reeves) war against the criminal underworld. The High Table, which is the criminal organization that has been John’s nemesis throughout the series, has thrown its most dangerous assets at John, determined to stop him from unraveling their operations and spreading chaos. In “John Wick: Chapter 4,” the stakes are higher than ever before, and John is pushed to his limits as he battles — and kills — countless enemies.
Courtesy of Lionsgate
The new film is an outstanding addition to the franchise and arguably the best installation to date. Reeves’ performance is a testament to his dedication to the character. He has not only embodied the character of John but made it his own. Reeves’ delivery of classic, essential action movie one-liners is spot-on, captivating the audience. John is undoubtedly one of the most intimidating characters in recent memory, and it is unlikely that we will see another one like him anytime soon. Reeves has managed to portray John’s emotional depth while still delivering breathtaking action scenes. Even with a three-hour runtime, the film succeeds in keeping the audience engaged, reminding us of John’s motivation and emotional vulnerabilities that drive his actions.
Despite being a formidable killer, John’s emotional arc in the franchise is often underrated. His love for his wife, Helen Wick (Bridget Moynahan), drove him to quit the criminal underworld. After the Russian mob killed his puppy, the last remnant of his late wife who died of a terminal illness, John set out on a mission to kill. His arc explores themes of love and loss, and his regular remembrance of his wife while committing crimes shows that he was a loving husband above all else.
“John Wick: Chapter 4” delivers on the franchise’s reputation for intense action sequences that are as innovative as they are brutal. From the opening scene to the final showdown, the film showcases some of the most jaw-dropping and electrifying fight scenes John has seen yet. The film takes us on a global tour, with John unleashing his fury in a variety of breathtaking locations, including Berlin, Osaka, New York and Paris. Each set is crafted with great detail, including unique lighting and ambiance that add depth and texture to the fight scenes. Furthermore, the fight choreography is a true work of art. John wields a wide array of weapons, including pistols, nunchucks, arrows, axes and other objects that are both precise and fatal with an expert technique. Whether he is taking on an army or facing off against skilled assassins one-on-one, John has made his fight sequences mesmerizing.
Courtesy of Lionsgate
The chaotic plot is as paramount to the film’s success as its fight scenes. The film showcases a well-crafted storyline that moves beyond the standard action fare, with new elements of chaos adding another layer of depth to the story. For example, the extremely lawless and anarchic High Table prohibits violence inside their hotels. However, John continues his revenge tale against the criminal underworld even after the organization has barred and termed him “
excommunicado
.” Due to the seriousness of this situation, The High Table bypasses all rules to destroy John and everyone around him. The film deftly navigates these complex rules and codes of conduct that govern the criminal underworld, creating a sense of depth that enriches the viewing experience. This approach to storytelling adds a level of credibility to the antagonist, elevating the tension and the stakes of the film. In John’s last action-filled act, it is fitting to see him utilize every skill in his arsenal to achieve his ultimate goal of revenge and freedom. John persevered through losing his allies and narrowly succumbing to death, cementing the idiosyncrasy of the fight and the motivation within him.
Director Chad Stahelski embraces all the elements of an action movie in “John Wick: Chapter 4.” The excessive murders, strong villains and feeling of urgency work to the film’s advantage. While John’s story may have come to a satisfying conclusion, side characters and plot threads are still ripe for exploration. The upcoming spinoff, “
Ballerina
,” starring Ana de Armas, promises to take John Wick’s cinematic universe in exciting new directions. Regardless, this movie demands to be seen on the biggest screen possible, receiving well-deserved rave
reviews
from critics and fans alike. The film realizes its potential and paints the town red with a bold, unforgettable vision and execution.
Yashonandan Kakrania
+ posts
Yashonandan Kakrania (he/him) (26C) is from Kolkata, India, majoring in business and film and media. Kakrania previously worked as a professional freelancing photographer and video editor. He started initiatives focusing on environment preservation and peer to peer learning. He is a hardcore Bollywood fan and loves playing tennis.
Yashonandan Kakrania
https://emorywheel.com/author/yashonandankakrania/
‘The Super Mario Bros. Movie’: A joyful throwback to video gaming franchise
Yashonandan Kakrania
https://emorywheel.com/author/yashonandankakrania/
‘Murder Mystery 2’ fails as an action-comedy with an abysmal plot
Yashonandan Kakrania
https://emorywheel.com/author/yashonandankakrania/
‘You’ Season 4 part 2 explores dangers of unsolved trauma, guilt
Yashonandan Kakrania
https://emorywheel.com/author/yashonandankakrania/
‘Air:’ A tribute to Nike’s success as a global giant
Share:
Previous
NCAAF Profiles: Oregon Ducks
Next
Dean Moon selected as Oxford Commencement speaker, retires after 40 years
About The Author
Yashonandan Kakrania
Yashonandan Kakrania (he/him) (26C) is from Kolkata, India, majoring in business and film and media. Kakrania previously worked as a professional freelancing photographer and video editor. He started initiatives focusing on environment preservation and peer to peer learning. He is a hardcore Bollywood fan and loves playing tennis.
Related Posts
Fox Theater Ghost Tours a Delightful Haunt
October 30, 2018
‘How I Shed My Skin’: An Honest Take
March 2, 2015
Atlanta Ballet’s ‘Dracula’ Adds Mesmerizing Twist to Original
February 11, 2013
Portraits of power and legacy: The Obama Portraits at the High Museum
February 17, 2022
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
