https://emorywheel.com/emory-experts-evaluate-ethics-of-using-ozempic-for-weight-loss/
Emory experts evaluate ethics of using Ozempic for weight loss | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Emory experts evaluate ethics of using Ozempic for weight loss
Posted by
Julia Laszcz
|
30 seconds ago
|
Featured News
,
News
,
Science & Research
|
0
Type 2 diabetes drug Ozempic is
available
again, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration drug shortage database. This follows the massive Ozempic
shortage
, which was spurred by the drug’s side effect of
weight loss
.
Ozempic is a brand of
semaglutide
, a medication that helps the pancreas release the right amount of insulin. While people are now using Ozempic for weight loss it was originally intended for people with diabetes because it
lowers
blood sugar levels, helping the body release its own insulin.
With individuals losing up to 15% of their
body weight
from the semaglutide injectable, Ozempic has been hailed as a “
medical breakthrough
” for its contribution to weight loss. Speculation of celebrities like Kim
Kardashian
and Mindy
Kaling
using Ozempic to lose weight, as well as the term
“post-Ozempic body” trending on
social media
, have
fueled the demand for the drug.
“
Ozempic has also been used by celebrities and has become increasingly present in the media over the past year,” Chelsea Yost (20MR), an obesity medicine specialist and assistant professor of general surgery and general internal medicine for Emory Healthcare, wrote in an email to the Wheel. “Additionally, there have been several landmark articles over the past few years, outlining the benefits of Ozempic from a weight loss perspective.”
Type 2 diabetes drug Ozempic is available again. Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Ozempic acts on the
hypothalamus
, which contains satisfaction
centers
in the brain to control how hungry an individual feels, Lawrence Phillips, a
professor of medicine in the Division of Endocrinology
at the Emory University School of Medicine, explained.
According to Yost, Ozempic stimulates the GLP-1
receptor
, which increases insulin and decreases glucagon, a hormone that increases blood sugar levels. This helps manage Type 2 diabetes and slows gastric emptying, mimicking the sensation of feeling full and encouraging weight loss.
Ozempic is not the only injectable medication that results in weight loss. Wegovy is a higher dose form of Ozempic that is designed as a weight loss
treatment
, Phillips said. Some public figures, such as
Elon Musk
, have attributed their weight loss transformations to taking Wegovy.
Mounjaro is another non-insulin injectable that is used to treat Type 2 diabetes, although the drug has not been approved for only treating
obesity
. Phillips noted that
Mounjaro
, which is not a brand of semaglutide
,
is more potent than Ozempic.
“These drugs can produce close to the same amount of weight loss that you can get with bariatric surgery, such as a gastric bypass or gastric sleeve,” Phillips said.
Yost noted that individuals without diabetes can also be eligible for
Ozempic
if they are overweight, have known cardiovascular disease or have at least two risk factors for cardiovascular disease.
Ozempic has potentially harmful side
effects
, such as an increased risk for developing pancreatitis and medullary thyroid cancer, especially if misused, according to Yost.
Long-term weight loss is not guaranteed when using Ozempic. Phillips stated that along with taking Ozempic, patients are expected to make the appropriate lifestyle and dietary changes to sustain their weight loss. With Ozempic costing approximately
$1,400
out-of-pocket per month without insurance, many individuals who can no longer afford to take the medication for weight loss gain back most of their
weight
within a year of stopping.
“They have to keep taking it,” Phillips said. “The primary problem in weight gain is inability to burn off calories that are consumed.”
However, using Ozempic for cosmetic weight loss has much greater
implications
than being a social media trend, Phillips said. The growing number of non-diabetics using Ozempic for weight loss has led to a
shortage
of the drug, leaving hospitals and pharmacies struggling to get the diabetic medication.
While
Yost noted that the short supply of Ozempic has made it difficult for her to prescribe the medication to her patients
, there is currently no priority given to diabetics.
“The question is, in a free society should we give any priority to the availability of these drugs for people with diabetes as opposed to people with weight loss?” Phillips said.
Julia Laszcz
+ posts
Science & Research Desk | Julia Laszcz (she/her 24C) is from Bergen County, New Jersey, majoring in neuroscience and behavioral biology and English. Outside of the Wheel, Laszcz is a writer for Grey Matters. Laszcz also is a volunteer for her town’s ambulance corp. She likes to cook new recipes and play with her dog.
Julia Laszcz
https://emorywheel.com/author/julia-laszcz/
Bloodlines of medicine: Students report nepotism in medical industry
Julia Laszcz
https://emorywheel.com/author/julia-laszcz/
Emory researchers team up with NASA to test microgravity of cardiac cells
Julia Laszcz
https://emorywheel.com/author/julia-laszcz/
College enrollment continues to decline nationwide, while Emory maintains similar enrollment numbers
Julia Laszcz
https://emorywheel.com/author/julia-laszcz/
Georgia Clinical and Translational Science Alliance receives $73.3 million grant to promote research across Georgia institutions
Share:
Previous
Chinese Undergraduate Student Organization hosts Asian Night Market
About The Author
Julia Laszcz
Science & Research Desk | Julia Laszcz (she/her 24C) is from Bergen County, New Jersey, majoring in neuroscience and behavioral biology and English. Outside of the Wheel, Laszcz is a writer for Grey Matters. Laszcz also is a volunteer for her town’s ambulance corp. She likes to cook new recipes and play with her dog.
Related Posts
Emory garners national attention after disciplining nurses for posting ‘icks’ on TikTok
December 16, 2022
Emory College Admissions Rate Falls to 13% After Receiving Record Number of Applicants
April 1, 2021
House GOP Tax Plan Could Increase Grad Student Taxes
November 14, 2017
SWS Hosts Discussion On Sodexo, Inequality
March 23, 2015
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
