https://emorywheel.com/with-love-from-druid-hills/
Love from, Druid Hills | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Love from, Druid Hills
I was born on Valentine’s Day, which is a curse in that my birthday will forever be overshadowed by candy grams and embarrassing declarations of love, but it’s also a blessing. From the minute I opened my eyes to the paper hearts and cheesy cards strung across the maternity ward, I’ve seen love everywhere.
Even at Emory, which I have, at times, referred to as a loveless wasteland — love truly is all around.
That’s because love is lying across the room from your roommate when the lights are out and it’s three in the morning and your eyelids are falling shut but you keep talking because you’re on the verge of a philosophical breakthrough. It’s sitting in Kaldis with a friend but not chatting, because you both have papers at midnight and it’s better to be with her than to suffer alone in the stacks. It means walking on the train tracks with your best friend for miles, lost in conversation, until it gets dark and you might get run over by a freight train but all you can think about is how lucky you are to be on this Earth — in this city — at the same time as this person. It’s sitting in the passenger’s seat of a friend’s car with the heater on and the windows rolled down and he’s blasting music as he turns down busy Atlanta streets while you’re wondering how such a person with such a heart stumbled into your life. Love is calling your sister and telling her about everything that has been special to you since you last saw her and wishing that she’ll also experience magic when she goes away to college.
Love in college is being hundreds of miles from home and still feeling like somebody would care if you dropped dead.
Emory students succeed in college not just because of academic support and external pressures, but because they have people to love and to be loved by. This series, ‘Love from, Druid Hills,’ is a testament to the loves that push us to wake up, get dressed and trek across Asbury Circle every morning.
– Sophia Peyser, Opinion Editor
For proof of love, I look to bathroom graffiti
Written by Sophia Peyser & Illustration by Jainee Shah
There’s no other human in the world who will trek to the Hungarian Pastry Shop with me and write Zadie Smith quotes on the wall of the bathroom to prove that we were there; even as we move apart and make new friends and live in different neighborhoods, the truth of our intertwined lives and shared love is forever written on the wall.
Falling in love with youth through my sister's eyes
Written by Saanvi Nayar & Illustration by Chau Anh Nguyen
Because she is like me, she will resent that I see her youth foremost when I look at her. But because she has me, hopefully she will realize that her eternal youth is my favorite part about her.
Nine hours and Irish lagers with friends
Written by Sophia Ling & Illustration by Ha-tien Nguyen
Loving yourself doesn’t come by happenstance; not through hiking the Swiss Alps or biking 50 km in Salzburg. Sometimes I think I want to live her life, but other times I remember that meeting her was a reminder to live my own.
The ultimate love language is food
Written by Isabel Cuellar & Illustration by Hayley Powers
I have loved coconut my whole life. I can’t fall in love with it all over again.
Capitalism starves us of love - we don't have to stand by
Written by Alexandra Kauffman & Illustration by Ha-tien Nguyen
Despite love’s inherent importance to human life and wellbeing, capitalism has deeply interfered with modern humans’ ability to cultivate loving, fulfilling relationships with friends, family and significant others.
Zik si ni lei hoi... Even if you leave
Written by Amiee Zhao & Illustration by Chau Anh Nguyen
I ponder now why I had so much faith and imagination, how we had so much sunlight, and how we loved so easily and fearlessly.
These mothers before mine: a love letter to mean Asian moms
Written by Julianna Chen & Illustration by Ha-tien Nguyen
I’m trying to think of her now, though, as a sculptor of sorts; she’s collecting what’s shattered, holding it close and trying to mold it into the body of a daughter who can be even stronger than her.
Love, race, and profit: How publishers pigeonhole minority romances
Written by Maddy Prucha & Illustration by Ha-tien Nguyen
Minority romances should not have to hide behind vague covers or lean into familiar stereotypes to gain traction and acceptance.
A love letter to the little things
Written by Jessie Satovsky & Illustration by Chau Anh Nguyen
Love doesn’t have to be epic or fairytale-like or even romantic for it to count.
Freshman year grocery list: How I found love at Emory
Written by Nico Mestre & Illustration by Ha-tien Nguyen
This year, I live aware of the numbers and the clock that counts down.
Cliquey self love culture wasn't intentional, but we need to fix it
Written by Ellie Fivas & Illustration by Hayley Powers
This Valentine’s Day, love your friends, love your families, love your hobbies and love your significant others. However, above all, remember that you need to love yourself first, and remember that you deserve to feel comfortable and welcome doing so.
We asked our Instagram followers…
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
