https://emorywheel.com/editors-2/
Editors | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Editors
The Wheel’s editorial content and business content is completely separate. For advertising inquiries, please reach out to our
Business Manager Hunter Collins at
hunter.collins@emory.edu
.
Editors in Chief
Matthew Chupack
Editor in Chief
Matthew Chupack (he/him) (24C) is from Northbrook, Illinois, majoring in sociology & religion and minoring in community building & social change on a pre-law track. Outside of the Wheel, Chupack is an exec member for Emory Behind the Glass. In his free time, he enjoys exploring cities, playing with his puppy and listening to country music.
Contact Matthew at
matthew.chupack@emory.edu
Sarah Davis
Editor in Chief
Sarah Davis (she/her) (22Ox, 24C) is from Austin, Texas. Previously, she interned with The Covington News and Austin Monthly Magazine. This summer, she will intern with The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. In her free time, you can find her mapping new running routes and exploring the Atlanta coffee scene.
Contact Sarah at
sarah.davis@emory.edu
Executive Board
Jenna Daly
Managing Editor | Sports
Jenna Daly (she/her) (25B) is from Windsor Locks, Connecticut and majoring in strategic consulting, real estate and philosophy, politics and law. Outside of the Wheel, Jenna is a member of Emory’s Varsity Cross Country and Track & Field teams. In her free time, she enjoys playing Spikeball, cheering on the Boston Bruins and discovering new restaurants in Atlanta.
Contact Jenna at
jenna.daly@emory.edu
Claire Fenton
Managing Editor | Multimedia
Claire Fenton (she/her) (24C) is a Pittsburgh native majoring in quantitive sciences and linguistics. Outside of the Wheel, she is the treasurer of Emory Data Science Club and Girls Who Code. When she’s not training for a marathon, you can find her watching the Penguins dominate the Philadelphia Flyers and rewatching Arrested Development.
Contact Claire at
claire.fenton@emory.edu
Madi Olivier
Managing Editor | News and DEI
Madi Olivier (she/her) (25C) is from Highland Village, Texas, and is planning on majoring in psychology and minoring in rhetoric, writing and information design on the pre-law track. Outside of the Wheel, she is a member of Emory University Generation Action. Her hobbies include binge-watching Criminal Minds and trying to pet the Emory cats.
Contact Madi at
madi.olivier@emory.edu
Sophia Peyser
Managing Editor | Editorial Board and Opinion
Sophia Peyser (she/her) (25C) is from New York City, majoring in creative writing and environmental sciences. Outside of the Wheel, Peyser works as a content writer. You can find her reading Sally Rooney novels or working shifts at a Brooklyn cheese shop.
Contact Sophia at
sophia.peyser@emory.edu
Oli Turner
Managing Editor | Arts & Entertainment and Emory Life
Oli Turner (she/her) (25C) is from Manchester, Massachusetts, majoring in English & creative writing with a minor in rhetoric, writing, & information design. She co-hosts the Wheel’s arts & entertainment podcast, Clifton Culture, which spotlights student artists at Emory. She has written for Boston Hassle and the Manchester Cricket. On weekends — and the occasional weeknight — you can find her at the nearest house show scoping out new local music.
Contact Oli at
oli.turner@emory.edu
Copy Editors
Jenny Zha
Copy Chief | News and Emory Life
Jenny Zha (she/her) (24C) is from Atlanta, Georgia, majoring in neuroscience and behavioral biology and sociology. Outside of the Wheel, she is an undergraduate researcher and involved with Rag Revival. In her free time, she enjoys doing the New York Times crossword and making vodka pasta.
Contact Jenny at
jenny.zha@emory.edu
Sandy Ge
Copy Editor | Sports and Arts & Entertainment
Sandy Ge (she/her) (23Ox) is from Shanghai, China, majoring in business administration on a film and media management track and quantitative sciences. Outside of the Wheel, Sandy is a student ambassador for the Student Admission Association, a general writing consultant at the Oxford Writing Center, a project coordinator at Volunteer Oxford and the president of the Oxford Chinese Student Association.
Contact Sandy at
sandy.ge@emory.edu
Haley Huh
Copy Editor | Opinion and Editorial Board
Haley Huh (she/her) (25C) is from New York City, majoring in psychology and minoring in ethics on the pre-med track. Outside of the Wheel, she is training with Emory EMS to become an AEMT. In her free time, she enjoys reading psychology books, crocheting and finding Spotify gems.
Contact Haley at
haley.huh@emory.edu
Section Editors
Spencer Friedland
News Editor
Spencer Friedland (26C) is from Long Island, New York, double majoring in political science and in film and media. He previously interned for local County Representative Susan Berland.
Contact Spencer at
spencer.friedland@emory.edu
Ashley Zhu
News Editor
Ashley Zhu (she/her) (25C) is from Dallas, Texas, majoring in biology and minoring in sociology. She is the vice president of recruitment for the Residence Hall Association, a sophomore advisor for Raoul Hall and a staff writer for the Emory Undergraduate Medical Review. She is involved in cell biology research at the Pallas Lab and is a BIOL 141 Learning Assistant. Zhu enjoys FaceTiming her dog, stalking people’s Spotify playlists and listening to classical music in her free time.
Contact Ashley at
ashley.zhu@emory.edu
Shruti Nemala
Editorial Board Editor
Shruti Nemala (she/her) (26C) is from Johns Creek, Georgia, majoring in economics and finance. Outside of the Wheel, Nemala is involved with 180 Degrees Consulting and Emory Impact Investing Group where she works to support local small businesses and nonprofits, helping them to succeed. At any given moment, you’ll probably find her embroidering, unsuccessfully trying to solve sudoku puzzles, or rewatching “Modern Family.”
Contact Shruti at
shruti.nemala@emory.edu
Ellie Fivas
Opinion Editor
Ellie Fivas (she/her) (24Ox) is from Cleveland, Tennessee, and is majoring in political science and art history. She writes on the Wheel’s Editorial Board. When she is not writing for the Wheel, she serves as the Oxford-Atlanta Liaison for the Oxford and Emory SGAs and as an editor for the OxPhoenix literary magazine. In her free time, you can find her reading historical fiction and The New York Times, writing, and doing crossword puzzles.
Contact Ellie at
ellie.fivas@emory.edu
Saanvi Nayar
Opinion Editor
Saanvi Nayar (she/her) (26C) is from Marlboro, New Jersey and is interested in the fields of public health, sociology and women’s studies. She is a member of the Editorial Board and outside of the Wheel, she co-hosts a podcast @dostanapod, advocates with URGE at Emory and obsessively keeps up with The New York Times’ “Modern Love” column.
Contact Saanvi at
saanvi.nayar@emory.edu
Ben Brodsky
Arts & Entertainment Editor
Ben Brodsky (he/him) (25B) is from Scottsdale, Arizona. He has explored hip-hop history since 2019, first on his blog SHEESH hip hop, and now with “Hip Hop Heroes,” a series of essays on narrative in hip-hop. When not writing about Jay-Z, you can find him writing “Brodsky in Between,” an Opinion column on political nuance, graphic designing and playing basketball.
Contact Ben at
ben.brodsky@emory.edu
Mitali Singh
Arts & Entertainment Editor
Mitali Singh (she/her) (25C) is studying English, creative writing and psychology. Her poems have been published in Eunoia Review and FEED.
She feels most inspired while spending time outdoors and loves immersing herself in different forms of art.
Contact Mitali at
mitali.singh@emory.edu
Jordyn Libow
Emory Life Editor
Jordyn Libow (she/her) (25C) is from Greenwich, CT, and is majoring in English and creative writing and minoring in business. Outside of the Wheel, she serves as Public Relations Chair of Liberation Through Education at Emory, and is on the Outreach Committee for Emory’s Atlanta Pediatric Cancer Outreach Club. In her free time, you can find her going on Lullwater walks, singing karaoke with friends, writing poetry, and drinking copious amounts of coffee.
Contact Jordyn at
jordyn.libow@emory.edu
Chaya Tong
Emory Life Editor
Chaya Tong (she/her) (25C) is from the San Francisco Bay Area, majoring in English and biology. Outside of The Wheel, she enjoys singing in her acapella group, working with Fair Fight U and serving on the University Senate Campus Life Committee.
Contact Chaya at
chaya.tong@emory.edu
Clement Lee
Sports Editor
Clement Lee (he/him) (24Ox) is from Virginia Beach, Virginia, majoring in economics. Outside the Wheel, Clement can be found perusing through agricultural data, reading English poetry or going on long runs in the woods.
Contact Clement at
clement.lee@emory.edu
Maddy Shapiro
Sports Editor
Madeline Shapiro (she/her) (26C) is from Stamford, Connecticut and is planning on majoring in creative writing and classic civilizations. She enjoys playing low-stakes games of soccer and spending time outdoors, as well as watching as many Premier League games as possible.
Contact Maddy at madeline.shapiro@emory.edu
Emma Kingwell
DEI Editor
Emma Kingwell (she/her) (26C) is from West Hartford, Connecticut, majoring in chemistry on the pre-med track. Emma does research in the Tirouvanziam Lab at Emory School of Medicine and Children’s Hospital of Atlanta, is a first-year liaison for the Emory Undergraduate Medical Review and is an EMT. Emma enjoys long-distance running, reading fantasy novels and studying foreign languages. You can find Emma rewatching Studio Ghibli movies and looking for new coffee recommendations.
Contact Emma at
emma.kingwell@emory.edu
Tiffany Namkung
Social Editor
Tiffany Namkung (she/her) (24C) is from San Diego, California, majoring in sociology and film and media. Outside of the Wheel, she’s been a part of several production teams. In her free time, you can find her bothering her cats, crying over cat videos and chasing cats on campus.
Contact Tiffany at
soobin.namkung@emory.edu
Ha-Tien "Titi" Nguyen
Podcast Editor
Ha-tien “Titi” Nguyen (she/her) (25C) is from Potomac, Maryland, majoring in environmental science on the ECO track with a minor in rhetoric, writing and information design. Outside of the Wheel, she works as an undergraduate researcher. In her free time, she enjoys drawing, tracking animals and listening to Youtube video essays.
Contact Titi at
titi.nguyen@emory.edu
Hayley Powers
Visual Editor
Hayley Powers (she/her) (24C) is from Washington, D.C., majoring in film and media and minoring in Spanish. Outside of the Wheel, Hayley is involved in a cappella and works for Emory Arts. In her free time, you may find her going on long walks outside, playing video games or working on her latest art projects.
Contact Hayley at
hayley.powers@emory.edu
Eva Roytburg
Editor-at-Large
Eva Roytburg (she/her) (23Ox, 25C) is from Glencoe, Illinois, majoring in philosophy, politics and law. Outside of the Wheel, Roytburg is an avid writer of short fiction stories. In her free time, you can find her way too deep in a niche section of Wikipedia.
Contact Eva at
eva.roytburg@emory.edu
Desks
Alex Zhang
Multilingual and International Inclusion Chair
Alex Zhang (he/him) (25C) is from San Jose, California, majoring in psychology and sociology. He enjoys playing piano and recording anime covers in his free time.
Contact Alex at
alex.zhang@emory.edu
Marc Goedemans
Editorial Board Chair
Marc Goedemans (he/him) (25C) is from Los Angeles, California, majoring in international studies and comparative literature. Outside of the Wheel Editorial Board, Marc can be found attending rock concerts, watching horror movies and reading Russian literature.
Contact Marc at
marc.goedemans@emory.edu
Julia Laszcz
Science & Research Desk
Julia Laszcz (she/her) (24C) is from Bergen County, New Jersey, majoring in neuroscience and behavioral biology and English. Outside of the Wheel, Laszcz is a writer for Grey Matters. Laszcz also is a volunteer for her town’s ambulance corp. She likes to cook new recipes and play with her dog.
Contact Julia at
julia.laszcz@emory.edu
Nica Leung
Atlanta Campus Desk
Nica Leung (she/her) (26C) is from Portland, Ore. and is majoring in political science and anthropology on the pre-law track. Outside of the Wheel, she can be found inhaling matcha lattes at Kaldi’s Coffee, playing Neko Atsume, exploring the Emory arts scene or spending time with friends.
Contact Nica at
danica.leung@emory.edu
Alexandra Kauffman
Campus Desk
Alexandra Kauffman (she/her) (26C) is from Phoenix, Arizona, and her major is undeclared. At the Wheel, she is the Arts & Entertainment campus desk. Outside of writing for the Wheel, Alexandra can be found reading sci-fi novels and thinking about her cat.
Contact Alexandra at
alexandra.kauffman@emory.edu
Samuel Shafiro
Live Art Desk
Sam Shafiro (he/him) (25C) is a Political Science major from Oak Park, Illinois. He is involved with the Emory Barkley Forum for Debate, Deliberation, and Dialogue and the Emory SIRE undergraduate research program. In his free time, Sam enjoys bananas and celery, as well as other fruits and vegetables.
Contact Sam at
sam.shafiro@emory.edu
Nathan Rubin
Film/TV Desk
Nathan Rubin (he/him) (25C) is from Fort Mill, South Carolina, double majoring in film and media and English. Outside of The Wheel, Rubin is a college admissions advisor for Matriculate and a member and contributor to Emory’s literary magazine, Alloy. In his free time, he watches way too many horror movies and drinks way too many Baja Blasts.
Contact Nathan at
nathan.rubin@emory.edu
Ari Segal
Music Desk
Ari Segal (he/him) (25C) is from Boca Raton, Florida, majoring in philosophy, politics and law and minoring in music. He is involved with the Emory Conversation Project, The Franklin Fellows Program and the SPARK Mentorship Program. You can find Ari talking about music, listening to music or playing music on the guitar.
Contact Ari at
pine.segal@emory.edu
Ayla Khan
Oxford Social Chair
Ayla Khan (she/her) (23 Ox) is from Nashville, Tennessee, and is majoring in neuroscience and behavioral biology on the pre-med track. Outside of the Wheel, Khan enjoys reading, listening to classic rock and exploring the city with her friends and her disposable camera.
Contact Ayla at
ayla.khan@emory.edu
Miranda Wilson
Crossword Desk
Miranda Wilson (she/her) (25C) is studying international and Chinese studies. As well as writing for the Wheel, she is part of the Barkley Forum competitive debate team and the Emory Journal of Asian Studies. In her free time, she enjoys reading, watching movies and doing crosswords.
Contact Miranda at
miranda.wilson@emory.edu
Web page designed by Hayley Powers.
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
