https://emorywheel.com/kal-penn-named-2023-class-day-crossover-speaker/
Kal Penn named 2023 Class Day Crossover speaker | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Kal Penn named 2023 Class Day Crossover speaker
Posted by
Ashley Zhu
|
2 days ago
|
Campus Life
,
Featured News
,
News
|
0
Former White House Office of Public Engagement Associate Director Kal Penn will deliver the keynote speech at Emory University’s annual Class Day Crossover, according to an email to the Wheel from Senior Event and Design Manager Amber Herring. The
event
will be held on May 4 from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m. in the Emory Student Center.
Penn, whose full name is Kalpen Suresh Modi, is also an actor. He is best known for his roles in TV shows such as “Designated Survivor” and “House,” the film “The Namesake” and the “Harold & Kumar” movie series.
According to Herring, Class Day Crossover recognizes baccalaureate degree candidates of Emory College, Goizueta Business School, the Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing and the Emory School of Medicine’s Medical Imaging Program.
Traditionally, the event occurs the Thursday before Commencement and features a senior reception, a ceremony with a keynote speaker and select senior awards — the Boisfeuillet Jones Medals, the Brit Katz Senior Appreciation Award, the Knights of Emory Spirit Awards and the Lightkeeper of Emory Award. Class Day Crossover also includes a candlelight procession and an alumni-hosted celebration, according to Herring’s email.
Graduating seniors can register for the
event
, and alumni and campus community members can also
participate
.
Former White House Office of Public Engagement Associate Director Kal Penn will deliver the keynote speech at Emory University’s annual Class Day Crossover. Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Penn received his undergraduate
degree
in sociology, theater, film and television at the University of California, Los Angeles. He also received a graduate certificate in international security from Stanford University (Calif.).
He is currently a cast member of the animated Disney Junior series “Mira, Royal Detective.” He also hosts a culinary competition show called “Money Hungry,” which airs on Food Network. “Money Hungry” wrapped up its first season in 2021, and Food Network has yet to announce whether it plans to cancel or renew the
show
.
Penn took a break from acting between 2009 and 2011 to serve in former U.S. President Barack Obama’s administration as the President’s Liaison to Young Americans, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and the Arts community. He worked on many issues, including the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act, Pell grants, arts and culture programs and the Affordable Care Act.
In 2012, Penn served as a national co-chair for Obama and U.S. President Joe Biden’s re-election campaign and later served on the President’s Committee for the Arts and Humanities, focusing on arts education and cultural diplomacy.
Last year’s Class Day Crossover featured former NASA astronaut and retired U.S. Navy Capt. and fighter pilot
Scott Kelly
. Previous speakers include former National Football League quarterback Peyton Manning, co-founders of ice cream chain Ben & Jerry’s Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield and science education television show host Bill Nye. The first keynote speaker was actor Danny Glover in 2003.
Ashley Zhu
+ posts
Asst. News Editor | Ashley Zhu (she/her) (25C) is from Dallas, Texas, majoring in biology and minoring in sociology. She is the vice president of recruitment for the Residence Hall Association, a sophomore advisor for Raoul Hall and a staff writer for the Emory Undergraduate Medical Review. She is involved in cell biology research at the Pallas Lab and is a BIOL 141 Learning Assistant. Zhu enjoys FaceTiming her dog, stalking people's Spotify playlists and listening to classical music in her free time.
Ashley Zhu
https://emorywheel.com/author/ashley-zhu/
Dean Moon selected as Oxford Commencement speaker, retires after 40 years
Ashley Zhu
https://emorywheel.com/author/ashley-zhu/
AI minor to launch next fall, faculty spearhead Center for AI Learning
Ashley Zhu
https://emorywheel.com/author/ashley-zhu/
Odejimi named new Campus Life dean of students, associate vice president
Ashley Zhu
https://emorywheel.com/author/ashley-zhu/
Law school dean to step down, rejoin faculty next year
Share:
Previous
Emory junior soaks up knowledge from every corner
Next
Ten books for when you don’t know what to read
About The Author
Ashley Zhu
Asst. News Editor | Ashley Zhu (she/her) (25C) is from Dallas, Texas, majoring in biology and minoring in sociology. She is the vice president of recruitment for the Residence Hall Association, a sophomore advisor for Raoul Hall and a staff writer for the Emory Undergraduate Medical Review. She is involved in cell biology research at the Pallas Lab and is a BIOL 141 Learning Assistant. Zhu enjoys FaceTiming her dog, stalking people's Spotify playlists and listening to classical music in her free time.
Related Posts
Prospective College Dean Supports ‘Sanctuary Campus’ Label
April 26, 2017
Blue Donkey Coffee to Open in Cox Hall
July 31, 2019
Asian American Hate Crime Panel Discusses Ways for Community to Move Forward
April 14, 2021
SGA Agrees to Fund Lunar New Year Banquet
January 28, 2014
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
