https://emorywheel.com/weyes-blood-sings-of-yearning-and-lost-history-at-the-eastern/
Weyes Blood sings of yearning and lost history at the Eastern | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Weyes Blood sings of yearning and lost history at the Eastern
Posted by
Sophia Peyser
|
Apr 12, 2023
|
A & E
,
Live Art
|
0
Natalie Mering is obsessed with artificial intelligence, which I know because she brought it up three times during her April 4 show at the Eastern, the Atlanta stop on her “In Holy Flux”
tour
. The singer, who uses the stage name Weyes Blood, is performing across North America and Europe in the coming
months
. Dressed in a white gown with flowing brown hair, her silhouette turned into a blur by hazy lights, Mering looked like a statuesque hologram; a Greek goddess or a Biblical painting that had been projected onto the stage. Bathed in blue and purple light and weaving easily between the candelabras lighting the set, Mering played songs from her albums “And in the Darkness, Hearts Aglow” (2022) and “Titanic Rising” (2019). Her idyllic voice, reminiscent of 1970s singer Karen Carpenter and folk legend Joni Mitchell, transported the audience into another dimension, where myth, lost love and passing time are all that are real.
Sophia Peyser/Managing Editor
Mering began with the single “It’s Not Just Me, It’s Everybody,” a song about living in a time of change and feeling lonely in a room full of people, which made it a fitting opening for a performance at the jam-packed Eastern. This theme hovered over the audience for the entire show. I think the entire venue identified with Mering’s sentiment of being surrounded by others but connecting to music in an individual way that is both unifying and isolating.
After the show, my friends and I walked to one of their apartments, wandering by Cabbagetown bungalows and through the Krog Street Tunnel, which was so fluorescently lit and covered in graffiti that it also felt like another world. We didn’t say much, choosing to bask in the aftermath of Mering. It was like waking up from a dream; like leaving church on Sunday and stepping out into the sunlight, feeling alone but simultaneously, together. We all saw the same concert, yet Mering evoked different emotions in each of us.
A standout from the performance was Mering’s gorgeous appeal to a higher power, “God Turn Me Into a Flower.” In the song, she intertwines the myth of Narcissus with her desire to exist in a world that praises people for being soft and delicate like a flower, when in reality it scorns vulnerability and demands narcissism. “’Cause the person on the other side has always just been you,” she sang. “Oh, God, turn me into a
flower
.” As the organ swelled and Mering crept across the stage, the screen lit up with collage that documentary filmmaker Adam Curtis had pasted together. Black and white eyes blinked at the audience before mundane, yet somehow haunting, images of people going about their daily lives overtook the screen. It was as if Mering was begging the audience to give her a break from the hustle and bustle of everyday life. The hairs on my arm stood up as I, too, wished to be turned into a flower.
Sophia Peyser/Managing Editor
Mering’s performance brought true meaning to the term “
collective effervesce
:” the almost-indescribable feeling of togetherness and belonging that going to a concert, a parade or a sports game brings you. It is the emotion that comes from deep within your chest; an awareness that everybody in that venue felt something during the performance. Mering riddled “Grapevine,” the second single off her latest album “And in the Darkness, Hearts Aglow,” with references to James Dean and Southern California, but at its crux is a story that everybody can relate to. Mering sang, “Now we’re just two cars passing by / On the
grapevine
.” As she danced across the stage, light flowing through her body and catching in her dress, an awareness that every single person in the audience had a person to whom they were just a car passing by overcame me: somebody they love and whose past is inextricably connected to theirs. “And I was yours for a
time
,” Mering sang. Her voice filled with yearning, acknowledging that being in love with somebody doesn’t always mean being with them.
It makes sense to me why musicians make music. It is for the same reason that writers write: to take an emotion that is complex and painful and turn it into something that brings people together. The crowd swayed side to side in disjointed harmony, passing DVDs to the stage when Mering asked and laughing in unison when Mering joked that the next song would be a rave song before launching into “Andromeda,” a heart-wrenching song off “Titanic Rising” about the myth of Andromeda and the pain women carry into relationships.
At the show’s beginning, Mering asked the audience what they would do if their partner turned out to be artificial intelligence. “What would you do?” she asked. “We break up with the robots, don’t we?” After Mering’s performance, I know one thing is sure: she doesn’t need to be so worried about artificial intelligence, as a robot cannot be programmed to feel what the crowd at the Eastern felt last Tuesday night. To be human is to want God to turn you into a flower, to sit at a party and wonder if anybody knows you — and every other theme of existentialism and being Mering incorporates into her music. That cannot be coded.
Sophia Peyser
+ posts
Sophia Peyser (she/her) (25C) is from New York City, majoring in creative writing and environmental sciences. Outside of the Wheel, Peyser works as a content writer. You can find her reading Sally Rooney novels or working shifts at a Brooklyn cheese shop.
Sophia Peyser
https://emorywheel.com/author/sophia-peyser/
Thanks to politics, a national high-speed rail is wishful thinking
Sophia Peyser
https://emorywheel.com/author/sophia-peyser/
For proof of love, I look to bathroom graffiti
Sophia Peyser
https://emorywheel.com/author/sophia-peyser/
Good luck getting in touch with Title IX
Sophia Peyser
https://emorywheel.com/author/sophia-peyser/
Republicans will cost Atlanta much more than Music Midtown
Share:
Previous
Black-owned, women-run children’s bookshop promotes diverse, inclusive stories
Next
Title IX 50th anniversary reflections from a female collegiate athlete
About The Author
Sophia Peyser
Sophia Peyser (she/her) (25C) is from New York City, majoring in creative writing and environmental sciences. Outside of the Wheel, Peyser works as a content writer. You can find her reading Sally Rooney novels or working shifts at a Brooklyn cheese shop.
Related Posts
I scream, you scream, we all scream: researchers explain allure of screams
October 26, 2022
Penn Badgley nails his comeback in first half of ‘You’ Season 4
February 25, 2023
The xx Gets  Intimate at Georgia Theatre
April 7, 2014
SNL Opening Monologue Touches America in Time of Conflict
November 16, 2016
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
