https://emorywheel.com/ten-books-for-when-you-dont-know-what-to-read/
Ten books for when you don’t know what to read | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Ten books for when you don’t know what to read
Posted by
Alexa Freedman
|
2 days ago
|
A & E
,
Wheel
|
0
Courtesy of Pixabay
If you are anything like me, you often find yourself scrolling on
Goodreads
for far too long, but nothing sounds good. What to do? Never fear, your ultimate list is here! Here are 10 books to try when you don’t know what to read.
Courtesy of Penguin Random House
When you want to fall off the bed laughing,
read “You Deserve Each
Other
”
by Sarah Hogle. In this second-chance-romcom where the comedy almost outdoes the romance, follow Naomi and Nicholas through their tumultuous engagement filled with pranks, ever-present parents and forced proximity. This one is sure to have you laughing till you cry.
Courtesy of Tor Books
When you want to hug your mom,
read “The House in the Cerulean
Sea
”
by T. J. Klune. Set in a universe in which humans and magical beings coexist, travel with caseworker Linus to an isolated island in the middle of a beautiful sea to investigate an odd orphanage. What he finds there will teach him the meaning of family and love. This young adult fantasy about a tight-knit found family will wrap its arms around you and hold you tight.
Courtesy of Berkley
When you need a good cry,
read “Pack Up the
Moon
”
by Kristan Higgins. This story of healing follows Josh through the first year following his wife’s passing, in which every month he receives a new letter that she wrote him before she died. This contemporary story will definitely give some much needed catharsis, even if you aren’t a crier.
Courtesy of G.P. Putnam’s Sons
When you want to give your brain a break,
read “The
Guncle
”
by Steven Rowley. This uplifting, funny tale of a single man who takes in his niece and nephew will have you crying tears of laughter, and any worrisome thoughts will fly out of your mind. Read this contemporary fiction for a luxurious vacation from your homework.
Courtesy of Atria Books
When you want your mind challenged,
read “Anxious
People
”
by Fredrik Backman. Delve into the minds of several strangers as they all come together at an open house for an apartment when chaos ensues. With twists and turns, connections formed and secret relationships unveiled, this contemporary mystery will have you turning the page back to make sure you just read what you think you read.
Courtesy of Doubleday
When you want to hop on a plane (or a spaceship!),
read “The Starless
Sea
” by Erin Morgenstern. If you’re feeling the need to get out of your dorm, or out of Atlanta, what better place is there to visit than the Starless Sea? Follow along with Zachary in this fantasy as he opens a mysterious door into an ancient library in another world, and lose yourself in the magic of this book.
Courtesy of Doubleday
When you want to feel like an academic weapon but don’t actually want to be one,
read “Lessons in
Chemistry
”
by Bonnie Garmus. Put on your white coat and join Elizabeth in her chemistry lab in the early 1960s, a time in which she is the only woman there. As her career becomes derailed, Elizabeth is more determined than ever to share her passion for chemistry with the world. This historical fiction tale, completed with the chemical composition of most everyday meals, will make you feel like the smartest person around.
Courtesy of S&S/ Marysue Rucci Books
When you’ve run out of murder mysteries,
read
“The Last Thing He Told
Me
”
by Laura Dave. In this mystery following the disappearance of Owen, run around the world with his wife Hannah and daughter Bailey to discover the truth of who Owen is, and what he has done. You will think you’ve figured it out — but you probably didn’t.
Courtesy of Ballantine Books
When you want to go for a run but it’s raining outside,
read “Carrie Soto Is
Back
”
by Taylor Jenkins Reid. Carrie is the best tennis player the world has seen in a generation; with 20 Grand Slam titles, she is the queen of the sport — until she’s not. Years after her retirement, Carrie’s record is broken, and against all odds, she finds herself back on the courts. A historical fiction, this book includes flashbacks to Carrie’s humble start and continues all the way to present day, when you can root alongside Carrie’s fans as she returns to the game.
Courtesy of G.P. Putnam’s Sons
When you miss the holidays,
read “Just Like
Magic
” by, once again, Hogle. In this romantic December tale, with just the right amount (read: obnoxious amounts) of Christmas magic, cheer and familial obligations, read about down-on-her-luck Bettie Hughes, who accidentally (read: drunkenly) summons the human form of Holiday Spirit, who is determined to cheer her up. You will laugh, smile and get your holiday fix with Bettie, Hall and the Hughes family in this Christmas classic.
So the next time you are scrolling through Goodreads to no avail, turn to this list instead. These books are all stand-outs in their fields. Whether you are strictly a romance reader, a mystery machine or looking to switch it up, there’s something on this list for you to get you reading up a storm.
Alexa Freedman
+ posts
Alexa Freedman
https://emorywheel.com/author/alexafreedman/
Social media shifts approach to University marketing, applications
Alexa Freedman
https://emorywheel.com/author/alexafreedman/
How Emory lobbies for local, national efforts
Alexa Freedman
https://emorywheel.com/author/alexafreedman/
University partners with Atlanta Public Schools to aid teachers’ mental health
Share:
Previous
Kal Penn named 2023 Class Day Crossover speaker
Next
Letter to the Editor: Proposed path would break Emory’s environmental promises
About The Author
Alexa Freedman
Related Posts
No. 2 WashU Sweeps Season Series
February 7, 2018
‘The Shape of Water’ a Mesmerizing Masterpiece
November 29, 2017
’22, A Million’ is Winter’s Summit
November 12, 2016
Pedro Costa Paints an Authentic Portrait of Grief
March 13, 2021
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
