https://emorywheel.com/within-the-margins/
Within the Margins | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
This is Within the Margins.
From the Emory Wheel, this is Within the Margins, exploring Emory University’s student culture and re-examining the University experience with students from historically underrepresented backgrounds. Listen in to discussions about student life, academia and the Emory experience.
Listen Now
Follow Us
Meet the Producers
Gray Gao
Podcast Host & Producer
Deanna Sharpe
Podcast Producer
Episodes
Episode 5: The Wealth Gap at Emory
As class disparities rise in the United States, access to education continues to serve as a financial obstacle to low-income families. At Emory, a pronounced wealth gap creates significant deviations in students’ interactions with university resources, administration and their peers. Today, we are joined by students Elisabet Ortiz (24C) and Nicole Ramirez (23C) to discuss how these social, political, economic obstacles may continue even after low-income students are accepted into post-secondary institutions.
Listen Now
Episode 4: The International Community
Emory is home to more than 4,000 international students and scholars. The international community at Emory has grown by almost 25% in less than 10 years, and the contributions these students have made to Emory’s achievements are profound. In this week’s episode of Within the Margins, we sit down with students Ahmed Aljohani (22C) of Saudi Arabia, Simren Bhinde (24C) of India and
Iris Li
(24C) of China to discuss their experiences as international students at Emory. We dive into the challenges of being culturally understood, visa process challenges, the support that Emory provides and the cross-cultural perspectives their identities cultivate.
Listen Now
Episode 3: The Nonbinary Community (pt. 2)
What does it mean to be nonbinary? And how does Emory University simultaneously create space for nonbinary-identifying students to flourish, and create obstacles toward their free expression? In this week’s episode of Within the Margins, we sit down with Emory students Jai Barnett (24C) and Casey Cancilla (23C) to discuss their relationship with gender, including their perspectives on gendered extracurriculars at Emory, queer social life and the multifaceted and dynamic nature of identity.
Listen Now
Episode 2: The Nonbinary Community (pt.1)
With 1.2 million people in the United States identifying as nonbinary, Emory community members are no exception. In this week’s episode of Within the Margins, we sit down with Julian Currents to discuss their experiences being nonbinary and professor at Emory. Currents examines the difficulties and institutional boundaries that come with being gender nonconforming in academia.
Listen Now
Episode 1: Black Students from the South
In a city that’s 50% Black and a university that’s 10% Black, what does it mean to identify as a Black Southerner? In the premiere episode of Within the Margins, host Rachel Broun (23C) speaks with Timethius Terrell (24C) and Morissa Wisdom (24C), two Black students from Georgia. We dissect the rural and urban divide in the South, diversity at Emory and what it means to be a Black Southerner in a predominantly white space.
Listen Now
Follow us.
Follow
Follow
Follow
Follow
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
