https://emorywheel.com/letter-from-the-editors-content-warnings/
Letter from the editors: Content warnings | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Letter from the editors: Content warnings
Posted by
Brammhi Balarajan
|
Oct 18, 2022
|
Letter to the Editor
,
Opinion
,
Wheel
|
0
Content warning: This piece contains references to suicide
.
To the Emory community,
Last Friday, the Wheel produced our yearly magazine, the Hub. This year’s magazine theme was accountability, with each article touching on a facet of accountability. One component of the theme is self-accountability. After an internal review of the production, we recognize and apologize for the inadvertent absent content warning in the print version of “It’s Not a Game Anymore.” The article, which details the responsibilities of university sports departments to support student-athletes’ mental health, references suicide and therefore should have included a content warning.
It was unacceptable to not forewarn our readers that the article discusses a sensitive topic, and we acknowledge the pain this may cause readers. We also apologize to the authors of the article, one of whom is a student athlete, who were not aware that a content warning was absent from the print version of the article. We should have caught this gross oversight, and there is no excuse for the Wheel not including a content warning.
The online article has been updated to include a content warning. In the future, the Wheel will be more vigilant to ensure that content warnings precede all articles referencing triggering and sensitive matters.
Sincerely,
Brammhi Balarajan, Editor-in-Chief
Rachel Broun, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Editor
Brammhi Balarajan
+ posts
Brammhi Balarajan (23C) is from Las Vegas, majoring in political science and English and creative writing. She is the Editor-in-Chief of The Emory Wheel. Previously, her column "Brammhi's Ballot" won first place nationally with the Society of Professional Journalists. She has also interned with the Georgia Voice.
Brammhi Balarajan
https://emorywheel.com/author/brammhi_b/
Candidates disqualified from student government elections, leaving College Council vice president position vacant
Brammhi Balarajan
https://emorywheel.com/author/brammhi_b/
Black coaches, admin share their paths to Emory
Brammhi Balarajan
https://emorywheel.com/author/brammhi_b/
Emory community members honor Mary Ann Shadd Cary’s contributions, celebrate Frederick Douglass Day
Brammhi Balarajan
https://emorywheel.com/author/brammhi_b/
Deltas celebrate 40 years of sisterhood, community
Share:
Previous
Hawks look to bounce back after a disappointing 2021-2022 season
Next
CDC awards Emory $8.3 million for HIV self-testing collab design, steps taken toward more accessible testing for stigmatized communities
About The Author
Brammhi Balarajan
Brammhi Balarajan (23C) is from Las Vegas, majoring in political science and English and creative writing. She is the Editor-in-Chief of The Emory Wheel. Previously, her column "Brammhi's Ballot" won first place nationally with the Society of Professional Journalists. She has also interned with the Georgia Voice.
Related Posts
Barkley Forum Debates: The Confederate Flag
June 29, 2015
Cartoon: Masks Up
September 13, 2020
Review: ‘Malum’ is a bloody mess
April 6, 2023
Letter to the Editor: LGBT Alumni Committee Urges Wagner to Act on Freedom at Emory’s Missions
February 13, 2015
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
