https://emorywheel.com/the-hub/
The Hub | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
“When I dare to be powerful, to use my strength in the service of my vision, then it becomes less and less important whether I am afraid.” – Audre Lorde
Being a journalist isn’t a popular job. Even at the Wheel, a student-run newspaper, we feel that acutely; we’re often branded as disconnected from the student body or irresponsible. Sometimes, that criticism is valid. As I wrote about in the 1963
Project
, the Wheel has a dubious history of marginalizing communities of color.
In recent years, we’ve worked to remake the paper into something that makes us proud. We’ve created women-centered
projects
, changed questionable
policies
on obituaries and instituted diversity, equity and inclusion
efforts
. But still, something that will always be inherent to journalism is being disliked.
Journalism is about telling uncomfortable truths. Particularly for journalists of color, speaking out can
mean
disproportionate online abuse and hate. But it’s more than just backlash; there’s hardship in putting your words out there — the raw vulnerability in sharing your story or telling someone else’s.
But still, we come to our offices day after day, scratch corrections on old copies of the Wheel and start a new story. If you asked almost any editor or writer at the Wheel why they do what they do, some facet of their answer ties back to one core belief: the power of accountability. To me, accountability has been everything from leading projects that reframed Emory’s history around desegregation to recognizing the Wheel’s failures and working to better our organization.
So this year, for the second annual issue of The Hub, we chose to center stories of accountability. Whether it was a deep-dive into mental health in athletic departments or an investigative opinion piece on the pitfalls of Title IX, every article demands and centers accountability.
So here’s my uncomfortable truth: I am afraid. Every time I interview a source about a personal story I don’t know how I could possibly capture it in words, I am afraid. Every time I have ever written an op-ed about the most raw details of my life, I have been afraid. And I am still afraid sometimes, to be bold and brash and demand accountability and truth. But fear can be a tool. It is because of it, not in spite, that we lay these stories out for the Emory community today.
We hope that the Emory community uses this compilation of stories to reflect on our own role in accountability — for the institutions we are a part of, for the systems around us and for ourselves.
– Brammhi Balarajan, Editor-in-Chief
The crossroads of campus and community
by Xavier Stevens
The graduate housing project blurring the lines between Emory and Druid Hills could signify future change
Thriving, here and now
by Eva Roytburg and Ashley Zhu
The Emory Indigenous community’s desire for presence, acknowledgement and home-coming
Nothing is fair in art and war
by Sam Shafiro
After the February escalation of the war in Ukraine, Russian arts face new challenges at home and abroad.
Good luck trying to get in touch with Title IX
by Sophia Peyser and Sophia Ling
The stories of emory’s title ix office reflect a history of ineptitude and inconsideration
It’s not a game anymore.
by Claire Fenton and Jenna Daly
Athletic departments are failing their athletes, and it’s time to hold them accountable
If you enjoyed the Hub and would like to donate to the Wheel we would love to send you a copy!
Learn more about donating here.
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
