https://emorywheel.com/about-us/
About | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
About The Emory Wheel
The Emory Wheel was founded in 1919 and is the only independent, student-run newspaper of Emory University. The Wheel publishes weekly on Wednesdays during the academic year, except during University holidays and scheduled publication intermissions.
Our paper is financially and editorially independent from the University. All of its content is generated by the Wheel’s more than 100 student staff members and contributing writers, and its printing costs are covered by profits from self-generated advertising sales. The Wheel’s editorial content and business content is completely separate. For advertisment inquiries please reach out to our Business Manager Hunter Collins at
hunter.collins@emory.edu.
The Wheel is proud to have gained recognition on both regional and national levels. We have won more than 100 awards from regional and national organizations including the Society of Professional Journalists.
A single copy of the Wheel is free of charge. To purchase additional copies, please contact the Business and Advertising Office. Copies of the paper are delivered throughout campus.
The Wheel reserves the rights to all content as it appears in these pages, and permission to reproduce material must be granted by the Editor-in-Chief.
The Editor-in-Chief is chosen in February through a general election of the newspaper’s staff. An Editor-in-Chief’s term lasts from the first issue after spring break to the last issue before spring break. Please contact the Wheel if you have further questions about the Wheel, its election process or its constitution
Our offices are located on the top floor of the Alumni Memorial University Center.
The Wheel does not remove content that has already been published, except in extreme circumstances decided by the executive board.
Our mailing address is:
Emory University
605 Asbury Circle, Drawer W
Atlanta, GA 30322
Corrections?
Advertise
Editors
Contact Us
Commenting Policy & Community Standards
We encourage debate, discussion and information from our commenting community, but we cannot assure accuracy or politeness from comments.
We reserve the right to delete comments that are libelous, defamatory, in violation of copyright law, inappropriate or harmful, and we take these violations seriously. We also reserve the right to ban individuals who are repeat offenders of such comments.
If you feel a comment violates our policy, please report it by emailing
emorywheelexec@gmail.com
. We will evaluate the violation and remove the disputed comment at our discretion.
The Wheel is not legally responsible for the content of comments on articles, and we do not change comments for content, grammar, spelling or punctuation. Comments only reflect the opinions of their authors.
Questions?
The Wheel’s Executive Board
The Wheel’s editorial content and business content is completely separate. For advertising inquiries, please reach out to our Business Manager Hunter Collins at
hunter.collins@emory.edu
.
Sarah Davis
Editor-in-Chief
Matthew Chupack
Editor-in-Chief
Sophia Peyser
Managing Editor
Madi Olivier
Managing Editor
Claire Fenton
Managing Editor
Oli Turner
Managing Editor
Jenna Daly
Managing Editor
Stay up to date with the latest  news.
Join Our Newsletter
The Wheel in your inbox every Sunday.
Success!
Email
Subscribe
Follow Us
The Wheel posts daily on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Follow us for the latest news.
Follow
Follow
Follow
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
