https://emorywheel.com/graduation-magazine-2023/
Graduation Magazine 2023 | The Emory Wheel
Donate
News
Academics
Oxford
Administration
Campus Life
Crime & Breaking News
Politics
Science & Research
Student Government
Opinion
Op-Eds
Editorials
Letter to the Editor
The Editorial Board
Special Projects
Agree to Disagree
Love from, Druid Hills
Flourishing
Project 1963
Lutalica
Arts & Entertainment
Sentimental Albums
Emory Life
Features
Profiles
Event Coverage
Crosswords
Cartoons
Sports
Multilingual
Chinese
Korean
French
Podcasts
Clifton Culture
Within the Margins
Wheel Talk
The Hub
About
About
Graduation Magazine 2023
Editors
Join Us
Advertise
Reprint Requests
Archives
Select Page
Graduation Magazine 2023
Please join The Emor
y Wheel in celebrating the Class of 2023!
The Wheel’s graduation magazine is distributed each year at the graduation ceremony and features ads placed by family, friends and Emory organizations to recognize and celebrate graduating seniors. Interested in placing an ad for your graduating senior? Please see instructions for how to do so below.
Step 1: Ordering your ad
Fill out the form to order an ad
before April 16.
Click
here
to access the form. Please provide
explicit
design instructions and any messages you want to be included in the ad on the form.
2023 Pricing:
Full page ads (8×10 inches, 16 images max.): $450
Half page ads (8×5 inches, 8 images max.): $350
Quarter page ads (4×5 inches, 4 images max.): $250
Eighth page ads (4×2 inches, 2 images max.): $150
Please note that, once submitted, form submissions are considered final. Once the ad proof has been created, we will limit revision requests to a maximum of 3 per ad design. Once the ad design has been finalized, we will not accept further revision requests.
Step 2: Designing your own ad?
Following the dimension guidelines of your purchased ad size, send a high-quality JPEG (1-2 megabytes and 300 dpi) of the design to us at
emorywheelgradmag@gmail.com
.
Step 3: Payment
If you wish to pay by PayPal or Venmo, please follow the instructions on the submission form. If you are an Emory faculty member and wish to pay via SmartKey, please email
emorywheelgradmag@gmail.com
for further instructions.
Step 4: Proofs
If you have elected for The Wheel to design your ad, we will begin the design process upon receiving payment. Once our designers have finished creating your piece, they will email it to you for approval. All ads submitted by April 17 will be designed and sent for final approval by April 21.
Example ad designs:
TIPS:
The faster we receive your instructions and payment, the more time our designers will have to work on your piece. Additionally, the more explicit your instructions are for design, the better. If you have photos that are not digital but want them included, please scan them onto the computer and email us those files. Please send all of your photos in a single email when possible.
Designed by
Elegant Themes
| Powered by
WordPress
Advertise
Classifieds
Archives
Job Board
Have The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Get The Wheel delivered to your inbox!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.
