https://goizueta.emory.edu/undergraduate-business-degree
BBA Bachelor Degree | Emory University Goizueta Business School
Skip to main content
Search
Apply
Give
Podcast 🎧
News
Events
Contact
Search
MENU
Emory Goizueta Business School
MENU
About
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Leadership Team
Legacy of Roberto C. Goizueta
Life in Atlanta
Programs
Compare Programs
Undergraduate BBA
Admissions
Academic Pathways
Curriculum
Student Life
Careers
Full-Time MBA
One-Year MBA
Two-Year MBA
Evening MBA
Admissions
Academics
Career Support
Student Experience
FAQ
Executive MBA
Online EMBA
Hybrid EMBA
On-campus EMBA
Master of Analytical Finance
Admissions
Academics
Careers
Student Experience
FAQ
MS Business Analytics
Full-time MSBA
Working Professionals xMSBA
PhD
Admissions
Academics
Careers
Student Experience
FAQ
Executive Education
Courses & Programs
Certificates
For Organizations
Why Choose Goizueta
FAQ
Faculty and Centers
Faculty Profiles
Accounting
Finance
Information Systems & Operations Management
Marketing
Organization & Management
Faculty Research
Behavioral Research Lab
Business & Society
Entrepreneurship & Innovation
Alternative Investments
Marketing Analytics
Business, Public Policy, and Government
Alumni
Connect
Contact
Engage
Invest
Resources
Recruiters & Companies
Recruit Our Students
BBA Students
MBA Students
Business Analytics Students
Finance Students
Consult with Students
Develop Your Talent
Build Your Skills
Customize a Program
Partner with Faculty
Support Industry Diversity
Apply
Give
Podcast 🎧
News
Events
Contact
Undergraduate Business
BBA
PROGRAM
Admissions
Application Process
Financial Aid
Upcoming Events
Academic Pathways
Area Depths
Concentrations
Dual Degree Options
Business Minor
Exchange Study
Internships Abroad
Study Abroad
Curriculum
Academic Advising
Grading and Standards
Leadership & Professional Development
Student Life
Atlanta
BBA Clubs & Activities
BBA Student Portal
Emory
Featured Students & Alumni
Signature Programs
Careers
Internship Stats
Placement Stats
Breadcrumb
Programs
Break Free from Constraints
Business Built
For Anywhere
We’re in the business of creating powerful leaders. Those with the ability, knowledge, and vision to think, innovate, and disrupt business as we know it. The Goizueta BBA program gives you an approach to problem solving and a methodology for making things happen. Here, you will stretch your capacity, embrace challenge, and build a foundation that prepares you to tackle any challenge, anywhere, in any field.
Students
Employed
Class of 2021 accepted offers within 3 months of graduation
BBA Students Receive
Coaching & Professional Development
BBA Class of 2019
also completed a major in Emory College
Explore Goizueta
play
Why Choose Emory BBA
Get a glimpse into the BBA experience and what makes Goizueta special.
Apply to Goizueta
Emory undergraduate students may apply to the BBA program once they have earned enough credit hours to have junior standing and have completed BBA pre-requisites. High school students will need to apply directly to Emory University through the main Admissions Office.
Apply
Consultations
High school students and students newly admitted to Emory interested in business can meet one-on-one with our BBA Admissions team.
Schedule
Building Relationships
play
BBA Orientation Retreat
Students accepted to the BBA program attended Orientation at Kaplan Mitchell Retreat Center in August. The overnight retreat is designed to facilitate students’ transition into the BBA program while beginning the process of building leadership capacities like resilience, interdependence, and coping with risk and ambiguity.
Alumni Share Insights, Students Pitch Ideas at Annual Emory Entrepreneurship Summit
The fifth annual Emory Entrepreneurship Summit, which took place April 4-5, gave student attendees the opportunity to be immersed in the ecosystem.  During the Summit, participants had the chance to network, hear from successful entrepreneurial alumni, learn from micro-entrepreneurs and present their own ideas in the “Pitch the Summit” competition.
Read More
Tapestry CEO Victor Luis Shares Key Values with UBSLC Attendees
Perspective. In the fashion industry, which is built upon a tendency to value what’s new, perspective is refreshed constantly. However, to build a brand that is not only current and expressive, but also enduring requires core values that serve as a framework against an iterative process, providing direction and grounding.

Leading the industry in this regard is Victor Luis. As the dynamic CEO of Tapestry, he has created this global house of modern luxury lifestyle brands comprised of Kate Spade, Coach and Stuart Weitzman.
Read More
BBA Program Gets Closer Look
The BBA Program is undergoing a comprehensive faculty-led review to ensure that Goizueta’s undergraduate students are best prepared for the organizational and social challenges of the 2020’s.

Goizueta’s Education Committee, currently led by Peter Topping, professor in the practice of organization & management, serves as the vehicle for ensuring program quality and vitality.
Read More
Undergrads Take Arts Management Trek to NYC
Undergraduate students at Goizueta along with arts majors in Emory College were treated to an insider’s tour of New York City’s art scene earlier this year, during the first Arts Management Trek to the Big Apple. The trek is part of the four-year-old Arts Management concentration, which allows students majoring in dance, music, theater and arts history, as well as BBA students who are passionate about those areas, to deepen their perspective and competencies at the intersection of the arts and business.
Read More
Students Get Crash Course in Entrepreneurship at HackATL
A 48-hour competition hosted at the Goizueta Business School, HackATL 2018 was Emory Entrepreneurship and Venture Management’s sixth annual business hackathon. As an executive board member of EEVM, I was on the organizing side of the hackathon, which gave me an interesting perspective of the event. The ability to speak with participants, judges and mentors to hear about their thoughts on the event was truly insightful.
Read More
BBA
Career Services
At the BBA Career Management Center, we are here to provide you with the direction you need to find your optimal path to success in the business world and to coach you about how to tailor your time in school to meet these goals.
BBA CMC
From the
BBAs
"Goizueta facilitates leadership development by providing an incredible amount of opportunities for students to get involved, and I have felt that development since stepping on campus freshman year."
Kevin Kim 21BBA, Alternatives and Institutional Strategy Intern at Invesco US
"Goizueta has created an atmosphere that is genuine, supportive, innovative, and inspiring."
Georgia Kossoff 18BBA, Associate Consultant Intern at Bain & Company
Read More
"I never thought so much of my business school education would take place outside of the classroom."
Ashwini Krishnamurthy 19BBA, Analyst at Centerview Partners
"Values define an organization and its people — and that’s something I learned at Emory."
Casey Rhode 17BBA, Investment Banking Analyst at Perella Weinberg Partners
Read More
"I have never been around a more talented group of students, nor can I imagine any school having a team of faculty that cares more about their students than here at Goizueta."
Kyle Nelson 17BBA, Investment Banking Analyst at Barclays
Latest
BBA News
April 6, 2023
From Farm to Cup: Goizueta Students Gain Firsthand Insight into Sustainable Coffee Production in Guatemala
March 9, 2023
Executive Women of Goizueta Celebrates 20th Anniversary at Annual Conference
March 6, 2023
Goizueta Business School and Truist Offer Immersive Student Seminar Using Innovative Technologies to Solve Fintech Challenges
March 1, 2023
Women in Business: Sara Wechter Leads Citi’s Workforce Through Adversity
February 13, 2023
Love is In the Air: Goizueta Couples Reminisce about Relationship Roots
February 7, 2023
Goizueta Celebrates 2022 Undergraduate Business Grads for Record-breaking Employment Results
January 20, 2023
How a Scholarship is Helping This Goizueta Student Do It All
January 9, 2023
Scholarship Opens Doors for This Business Student and All-Star Athlete
January 6, 2023
In a Noisy World, How Do Cult Brands Succeed with Viral Videos?
January 3, 2023
When B-School Meets the Arts
December 30, 2022
Welcoming 2023 with Positive Reflections and New Beginnings
December 19, 2022
Alumna Rachel Ding named Emory’s 9th Schwarzman Scholar
Emory Goizueta Business School
1300 Clifton Road
Atlanta, GA 30322
Get Directions
Email
:
gbsinfo@emory.edu
Phone
:
404-727-6270
facebook
twitter
instagram
linkedin
linkedin
youtube
Emory University
About Us
Emory Home
Campus Map
©
2023 Emory University's Goizueta Business School
Compliance
Copyright
Back to Top
