https://president.emory.edu/
President Gregory L. Fenves | Office of the President | Emory University
Top of page
Skip to main content
Emory University
Office of the President
Menu
Contact Us
Home
(current)
About
Communications
Leadership and Governance
Main content
Gregory L. Fenves, President, Emory University
“I see Emory as a university that leads . . . that doesn’t wait for others to clear a path. Being innovative and inventive isn’t an aspiration, it is an expectation at Emory.”
Gregory L. Fenves
President, Emory University
Meet President Fenves
about Gregory L. Fenves, President, Emory University
One Emory: Ambition and Heart is a strategic framework that will guide Emory into a bold future. It is focused on strengthening all of Emory’s nine schools, making the university an unparalleled destination for education, elevating Emory’s world-class academic health system, and recommitting to Emory staff and the city of Atlanta.
Learn More about One Emory
An Inspiring Vision for 2036
Emory’s 2036 campaign looks forward to the institution Emory will be—“a research university without equal,” in the words of President Gregory L. Fenves—at its bicentennial 15 years from now. Addressing faculty, staff, and students during the campaign launch, the president pledges that Emory will “forge partnerships with our supporters and donors around the world to invest in you, our people, who will shape our destiny while broadcasting the Emory story with pride.”
Student Flourishing
Our students prepare for a lifelong journey of transformation, contribution, and service.
Faculty Eminence
Our faculty change the world as  scientists and researchers, authors and thought leaders.
Research Excellence
Our research saves lives, forges partnerships, and drives discoveries across the globe.
Advancing Racial and Social Justice
The deep commitment of President Fenves and the entire campus community to enhanced racial and social justice has resulted in significant, ongoing work by several committees, task forces, and working groups whose positive change is already being felt.
See our work towards Racial and social justice
A Podcast about Big Ideas
In his new podcast series, President Gregory L. Fenves asks Emory experts big questions about society, the challenges we face, and the unexpected, bold, ambitious, and brave solutions they’ve discovered.
Listen to One Big Question
Messages and Speeches
Mar 28: Commencement Announcement
"... I am pleased to announce this year’s Commencement speaker will be Anthony Ray Hinton. Mr. Hinton is an extraordinary advocate for criminal justice reform, having spent nearly 30 years on Death Row for a crime he did not commit. ... The courage Mr. Hinton showed on Death Row is almost impossible to comprehend. ..."
Feb 7: One Emory: Ambition and Heart
"I was at an alumni event last year, and as I talked about the Emory ethos, I spontaneously said: “It’s a unique combination of ambition and heart.” And those words felt right: ambition, the motivation to achieve; and heart, serving others through achievement. Ambition and heart—that’s Emory. ..."
Jan 24: Charter Week Community Gathering
"The new year has gotten off to a wonderful start, and as spring approaches, I am glad to see the energy and excitement at Emory in full bloom. On Tuesday, February 7, I will be hosting a gathering in the Emory Student Center at 3:30 p.m..."
View All Communications
Social Media
Back to main content
Back to top
Emory College of Arts and Sciences
Oxford College
Goizueta Business School
Laney Graduate School
School of Law
School of Medicine
Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing
Rollins School of Public Health
Candler School of Theology
Advancement and Alumni Engagement
Communications and Marketing
Office of the Executive Vice President for Business and Administration
Office of the General Counsel
Government and Community Affairs
Office of the Provost
Office of the Secretary
Office of the Senior Vice President for Research
Office of the University Ombuds
Woodruff Health Sciences Center
Office of the President
505 Kilgo Circle
Atlanta, GA 30322
president@emory.edu
404-727-6013
Past Presidents
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Copyright ©
Emory University
EO/AA/Diversity/Veteran Employer Statement
|
Copyright
Back to top
