https://news.emory.edu/stories/2023/04/er_arts_and_humanistic_inquiry_13-04-2023/story.html
New Arts and Humanistic Inquiry initiative to invest in innovative scholarship, creative expression across Emory
Top of page
Skip to main content
Emory University
Emory News Center
Menu
Latest News
Academics
Arts and Culture
Community
COVID-19
Faculty
Health
Humanities
International
Philanthropy
Politics
Religion and Ethics
Research
Science
Service and Volunteering
Students
Sustainability
University
All News Topics
Campus News
Around Campus
Students
Faculty
Staff
Alumni
Events
Racial and Social Justice Initiatives
Scholarships and Fellowships
Service and Volunteering
All News Topics
For Media
Contact
News Releases
Emory University Home
Subscribe to RSS
Main content
Main content
New Arts and Humanistic Inquiry initiative to invest in innovative scholarship, creative expression across Emory
April 13, 2023
Emory University is deepening its nearly two-century-long commitment to the liberal arts with a new investment to expand innovative scholarship and creative expression focused on the human experience. Launching in fall 2023, the
Emory Initiative for Arts and Humanistic Inquiry
will support hiring up to 30 new faculty across five Emory schools, who will join humanistic and artistic scholars already at Emory to explore the human condition and critical questions facing individuals and society in our times.
“At Emory, we believe humanistic inquiry and creative expression are integral to the future of our institution, our students and all of society,” says Ravi V. Bellamkonda, provost and executive vice president for academic affairs. “Indeed, in an era when some are disinvesting in the humanities, Emory has decided to double down — because we think humanistic inquiry is particularly essential at this critical juncture in our shared history.
“At a time of rapid technological, societal and environmental change, scholars and artists who can shine a light on the human experience will help us face challenges and find new ways to grow and flourish.”
Hired through five schools
—
Emory College of Arts and Sciences, Oxford College, Candler School of Theology, Goizueta Business School and Emory University School of Law — with partial funding from the Office of the Provost, these new faculty will help each school bolster signature strengths and build capacity in areas of strategic priority. Deans of each school have established
unique frameworks
highlighting how the initiative can advance distinctive scholarship and interdisciplinary inquiry within their schools.
In an era when some are disinvesting in the humanities, Emory has decided to double down — because we think humanistic inquiry is particularly essential at this critical juncture in our shared history.
Ravi V. Bellamkonda, provost and executive vice president for academic affairs
“Emory’s innate strength in the liberal arts informs everything we do here — it’s central not only to the university’s mission to serve humanity but also to understand its changing condition,” says Candler Dean Jan Love, who guided the initial framing of the new initiative along with fellow deans Mary Anne Bobinski, Kenneth Carter, Carla Freeman and Gareth James.
“Through investment in our schools’ key strengths, deans’ visions and liberal arts heritage, the Arts and Humanistic Inquiry initiative will advance our shared knowledge of what it means to be and to express ourselves as humans,” Love adds.
“Moreover, it will center Emory as a future-driven institution in which these important questions are courageously generated and creatively addressed,” she says. “I look forward to welcoming faculty who will help Candler advance its scholarship towards the common good, serve a diverse student body, and inform students’ practices of faith and leadership as they engage with communities both local and global.”
The Arts and Humanistic Inquiry initiative will also support expanded programming in the
Bill and Carol Fox Center for Humanistic Inquiry
to serve faculty across the university — enhancing research and teaching in the liberal arts and catalyzing new collaborations among scholars in the creative arts, interdisciplinary humanities and qualitative social sciences.
In February 2023, Bellamkonda
named
Freeman, interim dean of Emory College, as the Fox Center’s next director. Freeman will step into the role, currently held by Walter S. Melion, after the university names Emory College’s next dean, with the goal of expanding the center’s reach and impact.
“We envision the Fox Center as a magnet for collaboration and innovative scholarship that attracts students and faculty from humanities and the qualitative social sciences,” says Freeman. “In addition to serving as an intellectual hub for humanistic scholars at Emory, we will engage colleagues across Atlanta, the U.S. and internationally, through workshops, conferences and other activities.
“Together, the outstanding scholars we attract through the Arts and Humanistic Inquiry initiative and expanded role of the Fox Center will put a spotlight on Emory as a locus for innovative humanistic exploration and artistic work.”
The Initiative for
Arts and Humanistic Inquiry joins other recent investments Emory has made to foster
faculty eminence
and
innovation through scholarship and creative expression
— both key focus areas of the reimagined One Emory: Ambition and Heart strategic framework
announced
by President Gregory L. Fenves in February 2023.
These investments include
AI.Humanity
, a major faculty recruitment, education and research initiative which brings together new and current faculty from not only STEM-related fields but business, economics, law, literature, ethics and more to guide the development of artificial intelligence to serve humanity; the
Emory Climate Research Initiative
, an interdisciplinary effort to maximize the impact of research and teaching efforts focused on climate change; and funding opportunities supporting innovative scholarship in
racial justice and equity
and
arts and social justice
,
among others.
Each of these efforts complements and builds upon Emory’s distinctive strengths in the liberal arts, while furthering the university’s shared commitment to create, preserve, teach and apply knowledge in service to humanity, notes Bellamkonda.
“The arts and humanities are
fundamental to Emory’s values and to the distinctive contributions we make to the world,”
says Bellamkonda. “Through Arts and Humanistic Inquiry and other investments in our academic mission, we will unleash
imagination and discovery to address 21st-century challenges
and positively influence the human condition in the decades ahead. I am grateful to senior vice provost Lanny Liebeskind for working with our deans and other faculty leaders in shaping the vision for this exciting new effort.”
Faculty recruitment through the Arts and Humanistic Inquiry initiative is expected to begin in August, with nominations initiated through the regular hiring process within each participating school. Nominees will be evaluated by the Arts and Humanistic Inquiry Faculty Advisory Committee (see below) and collective input provided to the Provost’s Office for final decision on partial funding support through the Initiative.
For more information, visit the
Emory Initiative for Arts and Humanistic Inquiry website
.
Arts and Humanistic Inquiry Faculty Advisory Committee
Mary L. Dudziak
, Asa Griggs Candler Professor of Law
Marla Frederick,
Asa Griggs Candler Professor of Religion and Culture
Valérie Loichot
, Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of French and Italian (returning department chair effective Aug. 1. 2023)
Wesley Longhofer
, Goizueta Foundation Term Associate Professor of Organization & Management; executive academic director, Business & Society Institute
Joshua Mousie,
associate professor of philosophy
Deric Shannon,
associate professor of sociology
Jill Perry-Smith,
professor of organization & management; senior associate dean, strategic initiatives
Jonathan Strom,
professor of church history; director of international initiatives
Elizabeth Wilson,
Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Women's Gender & Sexuality Studies; director of undergraduate studies
Skip sidebar content
Print
Resources
Office of the Provost
Emory Initiative for Arts and Humanistic Inquiry
AI.Humanity
Bill and Carol Fox Center for Humanistic Inquiry
Related Stories
New grants to fund research focused on racial justice and equity
Dec. 15, 2022
Emory awards funds for five faculty projects focused on arts and social justice
Dec. 15, 2022
New initiative will advance Emory climate change research and teaching
Dec. 2, 2022
Tags
Liberal Arts
Academics
University
Faculty
Teaching
Emory College
Oxford College
School of Business
School of Law
School of Theology
Recent News
Download Emory News Photo
By downloading Emory news media, you agree to the following terms of use:
Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License
By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License ("Public License"). To the extent this Public License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the Licensed Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of benefits the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available under these terms and conditions.
Section 1 – Definitions.
Adapted Material
means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material is always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation with a moving image.
Copyright and Similar Rights
means copyright and/or similar rights closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance, broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License, the rights specified in Section
2(b)(1)-(2)
are not Copyright and Similar Rights.
Effective Technological Measures
means those measures that, in the absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December 20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.
Exceptions and Limitations
means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to Your use of the Licensed Material.
Licensed Material
means the artistic or literary work, database, or other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.
Licensed Rights
means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the Licensor has authority to license.
Licensor
means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under this Public License.
Share
means to provide material to the public by any means or process that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways that members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time individually chosen by them.
Sui Generis Database Rights
means rights other than copyright resulting from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.
You
means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under this Public License.
Your
has a corresponding meaning.
Section 2 – Scope.
License grant
.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed Material to:
reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in part; and
produce and reproduce, but not Share, Adapted Material.
Exceptions and Limitations
. For the avoidance of doubt, where Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does not apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.
Term
. The term of this Public License is specified in Section
6(a)
.
Media and formats; technical modifications allowed
. The Licensor authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter created, and to make technical modifications necessary to do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to forbid You from making technical modifications necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including technical modifications necessary to circumvent Effective Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply making modifications authorized by this Section
2(a)(4)
never produces Adapted Material.
Downstream recipients
.
Offer from the Licensor – Licensed Material
. Every recipient of the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public License.
No downstream restrictions
. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed Material.
No endorsement
. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as provided in Section
3(a)(1)(A)(i)
.
Other rights
.
Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not otherwise.
Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public License.
To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly reserves any right to collect such royalties.
Section 3 – License Conditions.
Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following conditions.
Attribution
.
If You Share the Licensed Material, You must:
retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with the Licensed Material:
identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);
a copyright notice;
a notice that refers to this Public License;
a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;
a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent reasonably practicable;
indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an indication of any previous modifications; and
indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, You do not have permission under this Public License to Share Adapted Material.
You may satisfy the conditions in Section
3(a)(1)
in any reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required information.
If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the information required by Section
3(a)(1)(A)
to the extent reasonably practicable.
Section 4 – Sui Generis Database Rights.
Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material:
for the avoidance of doubt, Section
2(a)(1)
grants You the right to extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database, provided You do not Share Adapted Material;
if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is Adapted Material; and
You must comply with the conditions in Section
3(a)
if You Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section
4
supplements and does not replace Your obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other Copyright and Similar Rights.
Section 5 – Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.
Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to You.
The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.
Section 6 – Term and Termination.
This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License, then Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.
Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under Section
6(a)
, it reinstates:
automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or
upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section
6(b)
does not affect any right the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.
Sections
1
,
5
,
6
,
7
, and
8
survive termination of this Public License.
Section 7 – Other Terms and Conditions.
The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.
Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and conditions of this Public License.
Section 8 – Interpretation.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this Public License.
To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the remaining terms and conditions.
No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.
Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or authority.
Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding, Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it publishes and in those instances will be considered the “Licensor.” The text of the Creative Commons public licenses is dedicated to the public domain under the
CC0 Public Domain Dedication
. Except for the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons policies published at
creativecommons.org/policies
, Creative Commons does not authorize the use of the trademark “Creative Commons” or any other trademark or logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph does not form part of the public licenses.
I agree, Download image
I decline
Schools
Emory College
Oxford College
Business
                                                School
School of Nursing
Emory Continuing Education
Nondegree
                                                Programs
Pre-College Program
Business School
Graduate School
School of Law
School of Medicine
School of Nursing
School of Public Health
School of Theology
Resources
About the Emory News Center
Contact
People Directory
Help and Resources
Administrative
                                        Offices
Emory Healthcare
Woodruff Health Sciences
                                        Center
Libraries
Bookstore
Alumni
Giving
Information Technology (IT)
Careers
Human Resources
Compliance
For
                                        Students
For
                                        Faculty and Staff
Emory University
201 Dowman Drive
Atlanta,
GA
30322
404.727.6123
Contact
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Copyright © 2022
Emory
                        University
EO/AA
                        Statement
|
Copyright
Back to top
