https://news.emory.edu/stories/2022/09/er_celebration_of_faculty_eminence_26-09-2022/story.html
Celebration of Faculty Eminence offers opportunities for recognition and reflection
Top of page
Skip to main content
Emory University
Emory News Center
Menu
Latest News
Academics
Arts and Culture
Community
COVID-19
Faculty
Health
Humanities
International
Philanthropy
Politics
Religion and Ethics
Research
Science
Service and Volunteering
Students
Sustainability
University
All News Topics
Campus News
Around Campus
Students
Faculty
Staff
Alumni
Events
Racial and Social Justice Initiatives
Scholarships and Fellowships
Service and Volunteering
All News Topics
For Media
Contact
News Releases
Emory University Home
Subscribe to RSS
Main content
Main content
Celebration of Faculty Eminence offers opportunities for recognition and reflection
Sept. 27, 2022
Sixty-one newly tenured and promoted faculty, 39 named professors and four faculty members recently elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (AAAS) were honored Sept. 21 during the Celebration of Faculty Eminence 2022 at the Emory Student Center. The event’s speakers celebrated the honorees while noting Emory’s deep commitment to eminence.
Throughout the event, speakers defined the core dimensions of eminence: the opportunity to pursue research uninhibited by disciplinary boundaries, talented and diverse colleagues and students, collegiality and collaboration, the recruitment and retention of faculty as well as philanthropic support.
Those tenets were key points in the celebration’s opening video in which Dianne M. Stewart, Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Religion and African American Studies; Kathryn Yount, Asa Griggs Candler Chair of Global Health; Ian A. McFarland, Robert W. Woodruff Professor of Theology; and Venkat Narayan, Ruth and O.C. Hubert Chair in Global Health and executive director of the Emory Global Diabetes Research Center, reflected on their own practices and experiences.
President Gregory L. Fenves, Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Ravi V. Bellamkonda and Jonathan K. Layne 79B 79L,
vice chair of the Board of Trustees and chair of the board’s Academic Affairs Committee,
echoed the voices in the video.
“Emory is defined by you, our brilliant and dedicated faculty, who elevate our aspirations, our success and our mission to serve,” said Fenves, addressing inductees into the AAAS. “Now, each of you have set a standard for excellence… As accomplished scholars, as artists, as scientists, you are engaged teachers and mentors of the next generation, eager to guide and inspire our students, to see them flourish both here on campus and throughout their lives.”
Speaking to the newly tenured and promoted faculty, Bellamkonda drew attention to their potential impact on the university. “Now you are Emory. Emory’s future is determined by your actions, your scholarship, your mentorship of a junior colleague and the time you spend with our students.”
Layne, speaking to a number of Emory donors in attendance, picked up a thread from the opening video: “Named professorships are the highest academic award that we can bestow on the faculty member … and are the cornerstone on which many of our academic and research programs are built,” he said. “They allow faculty to explore novel ideas, which can lead to breakthroughs, advances and discoveries.”
The long-term effects of philanthropy are what Venkat Narayan spoke about in the opening video: “Fifteen years ago, if Emory had not invested in global health, our current footprint … would have been very limited.”
What does the investment in eminence mean to individual faculty members? As Ian McFarland also noted in the video, “[Donors] have the confidence that it’s going to be worthwhile, and that’s really inspiring.”
Sa’ed Atshan, PhD | Associate Professor of Anthropology
Dana Barr, PhD | Professor of Environmental Health
Ravi V. Bellamkonda, PhD | Professor of Biology
Gordon Berman, PhD | Associate Professor of Biology
Alexander Bolton, PhD | Associate Professor of Political Science
Karida Brown, PhD | Professor of Sociology
Rasheeta Chandler, PhD, RN, NP-BC, FAANP, FAAN | Associate Professor of Nursing
Cari Jo Clark, ScD, MPH | Associate Professor of Global Health
Christina Crawford, PhD | Associate Professor of Art History
David J. Cutler, PhD | Professor of Human Genetics
Musa W. Dube, PhD | Professor of New Testament
Laura Emmery, PhD | Associate Professor of Music
Jennifer C. Felger, PhD, MSc | Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences
Aisha Finch, PhD | Associate Professor of Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies
Seth Goss, PhD | Associate Professor of Japanese Linguistics
Ellen Gough, PhD | Associate Professor of Religion
Ilana Graetz, PhD | Associate Professor of Health Policy and Management
Jill Hamilton, PhD, RN, FAAN | Professor of Nursing
Joyce Ho, PhD | Associate Professor of Computer Science
Darren Lenard Hutchinson, JD | Professor of Law
Susan E. Hylen, PhD | Professor of New Testament
Samuel Jenness, PhD | Associate Professor of Epidemiology
Wei Jiang, PhD | Professor of Finance
David J. Katz, PhD | Associate Professor of Cell Biology
Dionysios Kavalieratos, PhD | Associate Professor of Family and Preventive Medicine
Yonggang Ke, PhD | Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering
Ross Knecht, PhD | Associate Professor of English
Katia Koelle, PhD | Professor of Biology
Matthew Lawrence, JD | Associate Professor of Law
Felipe Lobelo, MD, PhD | Associate Professor of Global Health
Malinda Maynor Lowery, PhD | Professor of History
Matthew Lyle, PhD | Associate Professor of Accounting
David Marriott, PhD | Professor of Philosophy
Nader Massarweh, PhD | Associate Professor of Surgery
Lauren McCullough, PhD, MSPH | Associate Professor of Epidemiology
Sameena Mulla, PhD | Associate Professor of Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies
Stephen O’Connell, PhD | Associate Professor of Economics
Michael Leo Owens, PhD | Professor of Political Science
Chikako Ozawa-de Silva, DPhil | Professor of Anthropology
Mirko Paiardini, PhD | Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
Rohan Palmer, PhD | Associate Professor of Psychology
Miguel Rueda, PhD | Associate Professor of Political Science
Phillip Zhe Sun, PhD | Professor of Radiology and Imaging Sciences
Mehul Sutha, PhD | Associate Professor of Pediatrics
Beth Reingold, PhD | Professor of Political Science and Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies
Jyothi Rengarajan, PhD | Professor of Medicine
Philip Santangelo, PhD | Professor of Biomedical Engineering
Effrosyni Seitaridou, PhD | Professor of Physics
Nicholas T. Seyfried, PhD | Professor of Biochemistry
Falguni Sheth, PhD | Professor of Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies
Aaron Siegler, PhD, MHS | Associate Professor of Epidemiology
Alicia Kay Smith, PhD | Professor of Gynecology and Obstetrics
Fred Smith Jr., JD | Professor of Law
Suhas Sridharan, PhD | Associate Professor of Accounting
Dietrich William Stout, PhD | Professor of Anthropology
Shakira Suglia, ScD, MS | Professor of Epidemiology
Yong Wan, PhD | Professor of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology
Whitney Wharton, PhD | Associate Professor of Nursing
Briana Woods-Jaeger, PhD | Associate Professor of Behavioral, Social and Health Education Sciences
Jens Wrammert, PhD | Associate Professor of Pediatrics
Hao Wu, MS, PhD | Professor of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics
Sharon Horesh Bergquist, MD, FACP | Pam R. Rollins Professor of Medicine
Victor G. Corces, PhD | William P. Timmie Professor of Human Genetics
Jacobus Cornelis de Roode, PhD | Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Biology
Musa W. Dube, PhD | William Ragsdale Cannon Distinguished Professor of New Testament
Christine Ekenga, PhD | Rollins Assistant Professor of Environmental Health
Matthew Charles Freeman, PhD | Asa Griggs Candler Professor of Environmental Health
Kali Nicole Gross, PhD | National Endowment for the Humanities Professor of African American Studies
Darren Lenard Hutchinson, JD | John Lewis Chair for Civil Rights and Social Justice
Thomas Jarrett, MD | Henry B. Tippie Professor of Medicine
Wei Jiang, PhD | Asa Griggs Candler Professor of Finance
Peng Jin, PhD | Robert W. Woodruff Professor of Human Genetics
Dean P. Jones, PhD | Dean’s Eminent Investigator
Kevin Michael Kalinsky, MD, MS | Louisa and Rand Glenn Family Chair in Breast Cancer Research
Jonathan Lyle Kaufman, MD | David Bankes Glass Multiple Myeloma Endowed Professorship
Sachin Kedar, Jr., MBBS, MD | Cyrus H. Stoner Endowed Professorship in Ophthalmology
Baek Kim, PhD, RPh | Schinazi Family Distinguished Professorship in Biomedical Research
Lauren Frederica Klein, PhD | Winship Distinguished Research Professor of English and Quantitative Theory and Methods
Allan I. Levey, MD, PhD | Robert W. Woodruff Professor of Neurology; Goizueta Foundation Endowed Chair for Alzheimer’s Disease Research
Valérie Iréne Loichot, PhD | Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of French and English
Malinda Maynor Lowery, PhD | Cahoon Family Professor of American History
Sara Joyce Markowitz, PhD | Winship Distinguished Research Professor of Economics
David Marriott, PhD | Charles T. Winship Professor of Philosophy
William Maffitt McDonald, MD | Reunette W. Harris Chair in Psychiatry
Shannon Leigh Meeks, MD | John and Elaine Mitchell Chair in Hemostasis
Razieh Nabi, PhD | Rollins Assistant Professor of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics
George R. Painter III, PhD | George R. Painter, III Distinguished Professor
Chrystal Mary Paulos, PhD | David H. Lawson, MD Professor for Cancer Research
Khalid Shibly Salaita, PhD | Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Chemistry
William M. Shafer, PhD | Dean’s Eminent Investigator
Subhadra Shashidharan, MBBS | Kirk R. Kanter Chair of Pediatric Cardiothoracic Surgery
Theodore A. Smith, PhD | Charles Howard Candler Professor of Divinity
Samuel J. Sober, PhD | Winship Distinguished Research Professor of Biology
Jessica B. Spencer, MD, MSc | Anne Winship Bates Leach Distinguished Professor of Gynecology and Obstetrics and Reproductive Endocrinology
Eric John Sundberg, PhD | School of Medicine Endowed Professor of Biochemistry
Lena H. Ting, PhD | McCamish Foundation Distinguished Chair in Biomedical Engineering
Elizabeth Jane Tong, MD, MPH | Rollins Distinguished Clinician
Brian P. Vickery, MD | Marcus Professor in Pediatric Immunology
Yong Wan, PhD | School of Medicine Endowed Faculty Professor
Jennifer Johnson Zreloff, MD | Amy Rollins Kreisler Professor of Medicine
Carlos del Rio, MD
Executive Associate Dean, Emory School of Medicine and Grady Health System
Leon L. Haley Jr. MD Distinguished Professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Emory University School of Medicine
Professor, Hubert Department of Global Health, Rollins School of Public Health
Co-Director, Emory Center for AIDS Research
Co-PI, Emory-CDC HIV Clinical Trials Unit and the Emory Vaccine and Treatment Evaluation Unit
Martha Albertson Fineman, JD
Robert W. Woodruff Professor of Law, Emory University School of Law
Founding Director, Feminism and Legal Theory (FLT) Project
Founding Director, Vulnerability and the Human Condition Initiative (VHC)
William H. Foege, MD, MPH
Emeritus Presidential Distinguished Professor of International Health, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University
Hank Klibanoff, MA
James M. Cox Jr. Professor of Journalism, Emory College of Arts and Sciences
Professor of Practice, Creative Writing Program
Director, Georgia Civil Rights Cold Cases Project
Skip carousel
Previous
Next
Skip sidebar content
Print
Resources
Emory Office of the Provost
Tags
Faculty
University
Awards and Distinctions
Emory College
School of Medicine
School of Public Health
School of Business
School of Theology
Graduate School
Woodruff Health Sciences Center
School of Law
School of Nursing
Georgia Tech
Grady Memorial Hospital
Winship Cancer Institute
Woodruff Professors
Recent News
Download Emory News Photo
By downloading Emory news media, you agree to the following terms of use:
Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License
By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License ("Public License"). To the extent this Public License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the Licensed Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of benefits the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available under these terms and conditions.
Section 1 – Definitions.
Adapted Material
means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material is always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation with a moving image.
Copyright and Similar Rights
means copyright and/or similar rights closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance, broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License, the rights specified in Section
2(b)(1)-(2)
are not Copyright and Similar Rights.
Effective Technological Measures
means those measures that, in the absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December 20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.
Exceptions and Limitations
means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to Your use of the Licensed Material.
Licensed Material
means the artistic or literary work, database, or other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.
Licensed Rights
means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the Licensor has authority to license.
Licensor
means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under this Public License.
Share
means to provide material to the public by any means or process that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways that members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time individually chosen by them.
Sui Generis Database Rights
means rights other than copyright resulting from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.
You
means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under this Public License.
Your
has a corresponding meaning.
Section 2 – Scope.
License grant
.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed Material to:
reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in part; and
produce and reproduce, but not Share, Adapted Material.
Exceptions and Limitations
. For the avoidance of doubt, where Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does not apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.
Term
. The term of this Public License is specified in Section
6(a)
.
Media and formats; technical modifications allowed
. The Licensor authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter created, and to make technical modifications necessary to do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to forbid You from making technical modifications necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including technical modifications necessary to circumvent Effective Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply making modifications authorized by this Section
2(a)(4)
never produces Adapted Material.
Downstream recipients
.
Offer from the Licensor – Licensed Material
. Every recipient of the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public License.
No downstream restrictions
. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed Material.
No endorsement
. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as provided in Section
3(a)(1)(A)(i)
.
Other rights
.
Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not otherwise.
Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public License.
To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly reserves any right to collect such royalties.
Section 3 – License Conditions.
Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following conditions.
Attribution
.
If You Share the Licensed Material, You must:
retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with the Licensed Material:
identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);
a copyright notice;
a notice that refers to this Public License;
a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;
a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent reasonably practicable;
indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an indication of any previous modifications; and
indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, You do not have permission under this Public License to Share Adapted Material.
You may satisfy the conditions in Section
3(a)(1)
in any reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required information.
If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the information required by Section
3(a)(1)(A)
to the extent reasonably practicable.
Section 4 – Sui Generis Database Rights.
Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material:
for the avoidance of doubt, Section
2(a)(1)
grants You the right to extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database, provided You do not Share Adapted Material;
if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is Adapted Material; and
You must comply with the conditions in Section
3(a)
if You Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section
4
supplements and does not replace Your obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other Copyright and Similar Rights.
Section 5 – Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.
Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to You.
The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.
Section 6 – Term and Termination.
This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License, then Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.
Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under Section
6(a)
, it reinstates:
automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or
upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section
6(b)
does not affect any right the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.
Sections
1
,
5
,
6
,
7
, and
8
survive termination of this Public License.
Section 7 – Other Terms and Conditions.
The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.
Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and conditions of this Public License.
Section 8 – Interpretation.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this Public License.
To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the remaining terms and conditions.
No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.
Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or authority.
Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding, Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it publishes and in those instances will be considered the “Licensor.” The text of the Creative Commons public licenses is dedicated to the public domain under the
CC0 Public Domain Dedication
. Except for the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons policies published at
creativecommons.org/policies
, Creative Commons does not authorize the use of the trademark “Creative Commons” or any other trademark or logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph does not form part of the public licenses.
I agree, Download image
I decline
Schools
Emory College
Oxford College
Business
                                                School
School of Nursing
Emory Continuing Education
Nondegree
                                                Programs
Pre-College Program
Business School
Graduate School
School of Law
School of Medicine
School of Nursing
School of Public Health
School of Theology
Resources
About the Emory News Center
Contact
People Directory
Help and Resources
Administrative
                                        Offices
Emory Healthcare
Woodruff Health Sciences
                                        Center
Libraries
Bookstore
Alumni
Giving
Information Technology (IT)
Careers
Human Resources
Compliance
For
                                        Students
For
                                        Faculty and Staff
Emory University
201 Dowman Drive
Atlanta,
GA
30322
404.727.6123
Contact
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Copyright © 2022
Emory
                        University
EO/AA
                        Statement
|
Copyright
Back to top
