https://news.emory.edu/stories/2023/04/som_bhc_predict_study/story.html
Insights into brain connectivity may help clinicians choose between talk therapy and medications for depression
Top of page
Skip to main content
Emory University
Emory News Center
Menu
Latest News
Academics
Arts and Culture
Community
COVID-19
Faculty
Health
Humanities
International
Philanthropy
Politics
Religion and Ethics
Research
Science
Service and Volunteering
Students
Sustainability
University
All News Topics
Campus News
Around Campus
Students
Faculty
Staff
Alumni
Events
Racial and Social Justice Initiatives
Scholarships and Fellowships
Service and Volunteering
All News Topics
For Media
Contact
News Releases
Emory University Home
Subscribe to RSS
Main content
Main content
Insights into brain connectivity may help clinicians choose between talk therapy and medications for depression
April 6, 2023
Media Contact
Jennifer Johnson McEwen
(media inquiries only)
In two long-term, NIH-funded studies, researchers from Emory University are continuing to gain a deeper understanding into factors that help predict how well three first-line treatments work for adults diagnosed with major depressive disorder (MDD).
The primary goal of the study, called PReDICT (Predictors of Remission in Depression to Individual and Combined Treatments), was to better predict which individuals with no history of clinical depression treatment improve with the use of either one of two antidepressant medications (ADM) or with talk therapy, known as cognitive behavior therapy (CBT). The latest results, focused on the alterations in brain circuit connectivity associated with depressive symptom changes, are published
online
and in the March print issue of the American Journal of Psychiatry.
The study provided insight into brain connectivity among patients who substantially improved after receiving either CBT or ADM treatment. Overall, they found there were alterations in the way different parts of the brain communicated with each other and some of these changes were common to all patients who improved, while others were specific to the type of treatment they received.
“Clinical depression is the leading cause of disability and loss of enjoyment of life among psychiatric disorders. Despite advances in personalized medicine for other diseases like cancer, treatment for depression remains largely based on trial and error and the preferences of the treating mental health professional,” says one of the PReDICT principal investigators
W. Edward Craighead
, PhD, J. Rex Fuqua Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of Medicine. “PReDICT is helping us better understand how different regions of the brain connect and respond to different treatments, so we can develop critically-needed methods for a more personalized approach to treating depression.”
Craighead co-leads the PReDICT study with former Emory colleague Helen S. Mayberg, MD, now a professor at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, and
Boadie W. Dunlop
, MD, Emory psychiatry professor and director of the Emory Mood and Anxiety Disorders Program.
A major goal of the study was to determine the shared and unique changes in brain resting state functional connectivity (RSFC) between patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) who improved with CBT versus with ADM. RSFC is a type of brain imaging using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure connectivity between different regions of the brain while an individual is at rest and not performing any specific cognitive, emotional or motor task.
PReDICT randomly assigned 344 adult study participants ages 18-65 with MDD, who had not previously been treated, to 12 weeks of treatment with CBT or one of two ADMs, escitalopram or duloxetine. Treatment in the study continued for two years or until the participants chose to stop in collaboration with a mental health professional. The researchers evaluated the efficacy of the treatments and their relative effectiveness in an attempt to see which treatment worked better for which  people with depression.
There were no differences in the relative clinical outcomes among the three front-line treatments for never treated depressed participants, though the level of remission (~47%) was slightly higher than in those studies including previously depressed patients (remission ~30%). Overall, PReDICT found about 25­–30% of participants did not respond to either or both treatments and may need to seek an alternative biological or psychological intervention.
Mayberg noted both CBT and ADM groups of participants exhibited a reduction in the functional connectivity between an important emotion processing center (the subcallosal cingulate cortex) and a part of the primary motor cortex, giving rise to the notion that regardless of the treatment, there is a common change in movement initiation and capacity. In other regions, CBT was associated with increases in RSFC while ADM treatment was associated with RSFC decreases.
According to Dunlop, one of the study’s important findings showed CBT resulted in significant increases in the way different parts of the brain communicated with each other. Specifically, the study showed there was an increase in the RSFC between two key parts of the brain known as the executive control network and the dorsal attention network. Craighead also notes this finding is important because it suggests that CBT may have a more profound effect on the brain than previously realized, and it could be a promising treatment option for individuals suffering from depression.
Although the patient samples were fairly large for this study and relatively diverse, the research investigators noted it is still uncertain if these changes in connectivity will be seen in other groups of depressed patients or in different parts of the world, and more research is needed to confirm these findings.
The PReDICT team concluded, “Our findings reinforce that people who are depressed should not assume they are doomed to never improve if they do not respond to ADM or CBT from a mental health specialist. They may want to consider an alternative of psychotherapy or ADM or, if they do not respond to either or both treatments, they may need to seek an alternative biological or psychological intervention.”
This study is supported by the following NIH grants: P50 MH077083; RO1MH080880; UL1 RR025008; M01 RR0039; and K23 MH086690, and the Fuqua family foundations.
Skip sidebar content
Print
Tags
School of Medicine
Brain Health Center
Psychiatry
Research
News Releases
Recent News
Download Emory News Photo
By downloading Emory news media, you agree to the following terms of use:
Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License
By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License ("Public License"). To the extent this Public License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the Licensed Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of benefits the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available under these terms and conditions.
Section 1 – Definitions.
Adapted Material
means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material is always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation with a moving image.
Copyright and Similar Rights
means copyright and/or similar rights closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance, broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License, the rights specified in Section
2(b)(1)-(2)
are not Copyright and Similar Rights.
Effective Technological Measures
means those measures that, in the absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December 20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.
Exceptions and Limitations
means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to Your use of the Licensed Material.
Licensed Material
means the artistic or literary work, database, or other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.
Licensed Rights
means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the Licensor has authority to license.
Licensor
means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under this Public License.
Share
means to provide material to the public by any means or process that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways that members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time individually chosen by them.
Sui Generis Database Rights
means rights other than copyright resulting from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.
You
means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under this Public License.
Your
has a corresponding meaning.
Section 2 – Scope.
License grant
.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed Material to:
reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in part; and
produce and reproduce, but not Share, Adapted Material.
Exceptions and Limitations
. For the avoidance of doubt, where Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does not apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.
Term
. The term of this Public License is specified in Section
6(a)
.
Media and formats; technical modifications allowed
. The Licensor authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter created, and to make technical modifications necessary to do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to forbid You from making technical modifications necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including technical modifications necessary to circumvent Effective Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply making modifications authorized by this Section
2(a)(4)
never produces Adapted Material.
Downstream recipients
.
Offer from the Licensor – Licensed Material
. Every recipient of the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public License.
No downstream restrictions
. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed Material.
No endorsement
. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as provided in Section
3(a)(1)(A)(i)
.
Other rights
.
Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not otherwise.
Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public License.
To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly reserves any right to collect such royalties.
Section 3 – License Conditions.
Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following conditions.
Attribution
.
If You Share the Licensed Material, You must:
retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with the Licensed Material:
identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);
a copyright notice;
a notice that refers to this Public License;
a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;
a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent reasonably practicable;
indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an indication of any previous modifications; and
indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, You do not have permission under this Public License to Share Adapted Material.
You may satisfy the conditions in Section
3(a)(1)
in any reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required information.
If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the information required by Section
3(a)(1)(A)
to the extent reasonably practicable.
Section 4 – Sui Generis Database Rights.
Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material:
for the avoidance of doubt, Section
2(a)(1)
grants You the right to extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database, provided You do not Share Adapted Material;
if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is Adapted Material; and
You must comply with the conditions in Section
3(a)
if You Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section
4
supplements and does not replace Your obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other Copyright and Similar Rights.
Section 5 – Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.
Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to You.
The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.
Section 6 – Term and Termination.
This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License, then Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.
Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under Section
6(a)
, it reinstates:
automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or
upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section
6(b)
does not affect any right the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.
Sections
1
,
5
,
6
,
7
, and
8
survive termination of this Public License.
Section 7 – Other Terms and Conditions.
The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.
Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and conditions of this Public License.
Section 8 – Interpretation.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this Public License.
To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the remaining terms and conditions.
No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.
Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or authority.
Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding, Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it publishes and in those instances will be considered the “Licensor.” The text of the Creative Commons public licenses is dedicated to the public domain under the
CC0 Public Domain Dedication
. Except for the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons policies published at
creativecommons.org/policies
, Creative Commons does not authorize the use of the trademark “Creative Commons” or any other trademark or logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph does not form part of the public licenses.
I agree, Download image
I decline
Schools
Emory College
Oxford College
Business
                                                School
School of Nursing
Emory Continuing Education
Nondegree
                                                Programs
Pre-College Program
Business School
Graduate School
School of Law
School of Medicine
School of Nursing
School of Public Health
School of Theology
Resources
About the Emory News Center
Contact
People Directory
Help and Resources
Administrative
                                        Offices
Emory Healthcare
Woodruff Health Sciences
                                        Center
Libraries
Bookstore
Alumni
Giving
Information Technology (IT)
Careers
Human Resources
Compliance
For
                                        Students
For
                                        Faculty and Staff
Emory University
201 Dowman Drive
Atlanta,
GA
30322
404.727.6123
Contact
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Copyright © 2022
Emory
                        University
EO/AA
                        Statement
|
Copyright
Back to top
