http://emory.edu/impact/
Emory University Impact Report 2020 | Atlanta, GA
Top of page
Skip to main content
Emory University
Impact Report
Menu
Igniting Intellect
Discovery
Community
Caring and Healing
Economic Impact
Main content
Lives Made Better
Once a Sudanese child soldier, Garang Buk Buk Piol is now an Emory student.
When he completes his master's degree in global development, Buk Buk will return to his home country better equipped to foster social and economic progress.
Learn How Emory Ignites the Intellect
Immunologist Max Cooper may have saved your life.
Cooper made a discovery that forever changed our understanding of the human immune system, opening the door to a new world of treatments and vaccines.
Learn How Emory Drives Discovery
For these Emory Scholars, it was a summer of service and social justice.
For 10 weeks, they engaged the community and learned from one another, in the process connecting their curriculum to real life.
Learn How Emory Engages the Community
Emory Healthcare cares for the most vulnerable.
Last year, we provided $688 million in community benefits and $151.5 million in charity care to patients in our hospitals and clinics.
Learn How Emory Advances Caring and Healing
Emory is an economic engine for the metro Atlanta region.
Capital investment is just part of our profound positive economic impact, which is also measured through annual operations, wage premiums, and ancillary spending.
Learn How Emory's Economic Impact Improves Atlanta and Georgia
Students challenging themselves. Faculty pursuing new knowledge. Researchers tackling issues of societal import. Healers restoring health. Alumni contributing in every walk of life. Community builders pursuing change.
These are the measures of a great research university. These are the ways we improve lives. We invite you to learn more and join us.
Making a World of Difference
Igniting Intellect
Creative thinking. Fearless inquiry. Students and faculty from across the globe come to Emory for a journey of discovery in an inclusive community.
Discovery
At Emory, research does more than advance knowledge and healing. We promote creativity and power innovation, providing a critical building block in the quest to address some of society's greatest challenges.
Community
Acting as a community is our greatest strength. This profound sense of responsibility, of care and support for one another, across our campus and across the world, is how we consistently attain higher ground in advancing solutions to improve lives.
Caring and Healing
Whether it is saving the life of a burn victim close to home or analyzing causes of child mortality in Africa, our physicians, nurses, public health experts, faculty, postdocs, and graduate students engage in teaching and research that benefits patient care.
Economic Impact
Emory has a profound economic impact upon metro Atlanta—$14.8 billion in 2019—as it creates thousands of jobs, generates millions in tax revenues, undertakes capital investment, and contributes to communities through service, health care, research, and civic engagement.
Back to main content
Back to top
Impact Report 2019
Copyright ©
Emory University
EO/AA/Disability/Veteran Employer
|
Copyright
Back to top
