http://www.nursing.emory.edu/
Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing
Awards and Pinning CEREMONIES

Missed our Awards and Pinning ceremonies on May 7? Archive video is available along with info on graduation events on May 9.
MORE

2022 Commencement Information and Webcast

Today marks the 177th Commencement Ceremonies at Emory University! After the activities at the Quandrangle, the Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing will host a Degree Candidate Recognition Ceremony at 11 a.m. at the Emory Student Center. All events will be streamed live.
Info and Webcast
Skip to Content
Students

COVID-19 Info
Resources
Course Atlas
Registrar
Career Services
Student Services
Faculty & Staff

COVID-19 Info
Directory
Emory Nursing Learning Center
Employment
Resources
Preceptors
Alumni

Overview
Get Inspired
Get Involved
Get Invested
Nurses

Continuing Education
Become a Preceptor
The Nurses Station
Recruiters

Educate Your Nurses
Partner with Us
Recruit our Students
Clinical & Educational Partnerships
Continuing Education
ENLC

Admissions

Admissions
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Why Emory Nursing
Meet Current Students
Tuition & Fees
Frequently Asked Questions
Application Guide & Tips
Student Experience
Living in Atlanta
Student Services
Accessibility Services
Traditions
Clubs & Organizations
Service Learning
Career Planning
Simulation Center
Clinical Experiences
‍
Now Accepting Applications
Emory To Launch New Programs Training Mental Health Nurses
Shortages of qualified mental health professionals are at crisis levels, nationally. According to Mental Health America (2021) Georgia ranks last in the nation in access to mental health care. The Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing at Emory University plans to launch postgraduate and doctoral programs to train psychiatric nurse practitioners to provide expert mental health care.
Degree Programs
Bachelor's/Pre-Licensure Programs
Accelerated Programs
Master's/Post-Licensure Programs
Doctoral Programs
Not sure where to begin? Answer a few questions and let us help guide you. Become a nurse and change the world.
lEARN mORE
Academics

Bachelor's/Pre-Licensure Programs
Transfer Students
Emory & Oxford Students
Emory Website
Office of Financial Aid
Life at Emory
Undergraduate Admissions
Accelerated Programs
Distance-Accelerated BSN
Master of Nursing (MN, Pre-Licensure Program)
InEmory MN (Pre-Licensure Program)
MN Pathway to MSN
Master's/Post-Graduate Certificate Programs
Adult/Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner
Adult/Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner
Family Nurse Practitioner
Master in Cardiovascular Perfusion Science
Neonatal Nurse Practitioner
Nurse-Midwifery
Pediatric Acute Care Nurse Practitioner
Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
Women's Health/Gender-Related Nurse Practitioner
Dual-Degree Programs
MSN-MPH in Bioethics Dual Degree
MSN-MPH Dual Degree
Doctoral Programs/Specialties
Post BSN DNP / Post MN DNP
Post-Masters DNP
DNP, Nurse Anesthesia (CRNA)
PhD
Continuing Education
Emory Nursing Experience
Wound, Ostomy & Continence Nursing Education Center (WOCNEC)
As a leader in the development of innovative educational programs and teaching-learning methods, the School of Nursing values the intersection of research and practice
lEARN mORE
Faculty & Research

Research
Office of Nursing Research
Research Collaborations
Student Research
Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities
Centers
Center for Data Science
Center for Healthcare History & Policy
Center for Palliative Care
Lillian Carter Center
IN THE NEWS
Emory’s Open Door For Latinx Youth
In eight short years, Roxana Chicas progressed from being an Atlanta community college student to what she is today—an assistant professor at the School of Nursing.
Initiatives
Atlanta's Resiliency Resource for Frontline Workers (ARROW)
CAPACITY
Center for Children's Health Assessment, Research Translation, and Combating Environmental Racism (CHARTER)
Center for Children's Health, the Environment, the Microbiome, and Metabolomics
Center for the Study of Symptom Science, Metabolomics, & Multiple Chronic Conditions
ECLAIR - Intelligent Candidate to Job Matching
Emory InMotion
Emory Roybal Center for Caregiving Mastery
Ethiopia Partnership
National Hartford Center of Gerontological Nursing Excellence
Primary Care Residency
Project NeLL
Southeastern Pediatric Environmental Health Specialty Unit
T32 Nurse Scientist Training Grant
The Girasoles (Sunflower) Research Program
The Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing is among the top five nursing schools in the U.S. in funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
lEARN mORE
Global

Lillian Carter Center
LCC Home Page
Nursing Research in Global Health
Service Learning and Social Responsibility
Global Engagement
Emory Nursing Now Blog
Farmworker Family Health Program
Webcasts
Future Of Nursing Workforce
Emory’s Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing and Goizueta Business School cohosted the Business Case for Nursing Summit on March 22, an opportunity to hear from experts in health care operations, business and nursing care.
The School of Nursing promotes optimal health and wellness for all by creating, changing, and leading through teaching, discovery, practice, and social action in local and global communities.
Learn More
About

About Us
Fast Facts
Leadership
Diversity
History
Visitor Info
Contact
Accreditation
Emory Nursing Learning Center
Emory University
University Website
About Emory
Emory Profile
Atlanta & Community
Life at Emory
University Administration
University Reports
Emory History
IN THE NEWS
NIH Awards $4 Million Grant To Improve Health In Diverse Communities
With this grant, an Emory-led team of environmental health scientists and health communication experts from the University of Georgia will join forces to translate important environmental health research findings to key stakeholders in the community, academia and health care systems through the newly created Center for Children’s Health Assessment, Research Translation and Combating Racism.
As one of the top nursing schools in the nation, the Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing commits to educating visionary nurse leaders and scholars
Learn More
News
Events
GIVING

Emory Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing
Preparing Visionary Nurse Leaders
#2 BSN Program
#2 MN Program
#4 BSN Program
#6 DNP Program
#2 MSN Program
#2 MSN Program
#2 MN Program
#6 DNP Program
Now accepting applications for Fall 2023 & Spring 2024
Apply
Give back
At Emory, you can change the world.
This is the place where you will experience the real world of health care — and master it — first-hand. A school where lines between classroom and career begin to blur, where you’ll grow from a student into a leader, and where you’ll learn to make a difference for patients today, tomorrow and every other day.
Emory School of Nursing launching Master in Cardiovascular Perfusion Science program
More
Emory University’s Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing is ranked No. 2 among undergraduate nursing schools in the US 2022-2023 Best Colleges rankings released by U.S. News and World Report
The Emory University Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing’s Bachelor of Science (BSN) program is now ranked No. 2 in the nation, according to rankings released today by U.S. News & World Report. This is only the second year undergraduate nursing programs have been ranked, with the School of Nursing rising in this year’s rankings from the No. 4 to the No. 2 spot. The school now has three top-10 programs, with its master’s degree program ranking second and its Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program coming in at No. 6.
Read Story
10.5
m
in research funding in FY20
6
th
Ranking in DNP programs
by U.S. News
95
%
of 2021 pre-licensure graduates with job offers three-months post-graduation
4
th
Ranking in Undergraduate programs by U.S. News
2
nd
Ranked Masters programs by U.S. News & World Report's Best Nursing Schools
16.9
m
for Financial Aid & Scholarships FY21
Find the right program for you
Bachelors
Start your career in nursing with a nationally recognized BSN.
more

Accelerated
Get on the fast track to earning your degree and enter the field in less time.
more

Masters
Deepen your knowledge and enhance your career path with an Emory MSN.
more

Doctoral
Enhance your leadership skills with a PhD or Doctor of Nursing Practice.
more

Continuing
Explore continuing education offered through the Emory Nursing Experience
more

Virtual Campus Tour

What's Happening at Emory Nursing...
Morehouse School of Medicine, Emory researchers to study community-based patient navigation
The
National Institute of Nursing Research
has awarded a $3.4 million grant for Emory University and Morehouse School of Medicine researchers to study the impact of the integration of community-based, perinatal patient navigation into the continuum of maternal care for Black women in a safety-net health system.
The R01 Research Project grant provides funding for five years to conduct a pragmatic randomized controlled trial of the patient navigation intervention to discern its effectiveness in reducing maternal morbidities and mortality and improving unmet social needs, health care utilization, and timeliness of care.
Principal investigators on the grant include Rasheeta Chandler, PhD, RN, FNP-BC, FAANP, FAAN, associate professor with the
Emory University Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing
; Anne Dunlop, MD, MPH, professor and director of clinical research with the Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics,
Emory School of Medicine
; and Natalie Hernandez, PhD, MPH, associate professor and executive director of the Center for Maternal Health Equity at the
Morehouse School of Medicine
.
According to Chandler, maternal mortality in the United States is substantially higher than that of other developed nations, with Georgia ranking second highest among the states. In Georgia, racial disparities in adverse maternal health outcomes, including severe maternal morbidity and maternal mortality, are wide and persistent.
“Equity-centered, transformational models of care offer promise for reducing these disparities and achieving maternal health equity, but data sufficient for supporting the adoption of such models into health care practice are lacking,” she adds.
Using equity-focused research frameworks, the multi-disciplinary team experienced in health services, community-based research, and equity-centered care will evaluate maternal health outcomes in a hospital system that primarily serves Black women with high unmet needs. The team will also implement a high-fidelity care model intervention and utilize health system and patient-reported data to determine the model’s effectiveness.
This research is supported by the National Institute of Nursing Research of the
National Institutes of Health
under Award Number R01NR020756. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health.
The National Institute of Nursing Research has awarded a $3.4 million grant for Emory University and Morehouse School of Medicine researchers to study the impact of the integration of community-based, perinatal patient navigation into the continuum of maternal care for Black women in a safety-net health system.
Read More

Morehouse School of Medicine, Emory researchers to study community-based patient navigation
Nursing professor honored for distinguished research in oncology nursing
Emory School of Nursing receives award to advance health equity through nursing
Emory University Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing launching a Master in Cardiovascular Perfusion Science program
Cover story
Caring for the Future
Students:
The Heart of the New Emory Nursing Learning Center
Current ISSUE
Read article
A day in the life...
Check out our takeovers where students document their day and answer questions about their lives as nursing students on our Instagram feed.
Featured
Cat Dymond

CRNA
Handling Challenges

MN+MSN
Favorite Class

BSN
Researching Cancer

1520 Clifton Road NE
Atlanta, Georgia 30322 USA
(404) 727-7980
nursingquestions@emory.edu
EO/AA Statement
Copyright Information
Accreditation
Emory Nursing
Academics & Admissions
Student Experience
About Emory Nursing
Job Opportunities
RESOURCES
Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Recruiters
Find us on Social




© 2022 Emory University's Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing
