https://news.emory.edu/stories/2023/04/winship_researchers_find_lorlatinib_to_be_safe_and_effective_treatment_for_high-risk_neuroblastoma/story.html
Researchers find lorlatinib to be safe and effective treatment for high-risk neuroblastoma
Top of page
Skip to main content
Emory University
Emory News Center
Menu
Latest News
Academics
Arts and Culture
Community
COVID-19
Faculty
Health
Humanities
International
Philanthropy
Politics
Religion and Ethics
Research
Science
Service and Volunteering
Students
Sustainability
University
All News Topics
Campus News
Around Campus
Students
Faculty
Staff
Alumni
Events
Racial and Social Justice Initiatives
Scholarships and Fellowships
Service and Volunteering
All News Topics
For Media
Contact
News Releases
Emory University Home
Subscribe to RSS
Main content
Main content
Researchers find lorlatinib to be safe and effective treatment for high-risk neuroblastoma
April 3, 2023
Media Contact
Jenny Owen
In a significant step for the treatment of neuroblastoma, an international group of researchers led by Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP), Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University
and the New Approaches to Neuroblastoma Therapy (NANT) Consortium has shown that the targeted therapy lorlatinib is safe and effective in treating high-risk neuroblastoma. The findings,
published today in
Nature Medicine
, have led to a major amendment in a phase 3 Children’s Oncology Group (COG) clinical trial, which has incorporated lorlatinib for newly diagnosed ALK-driven high-risk neuroblastoma, as well as a planned amendment to the European phase 3 trial in collaboration with the International Society of Paediatric Oncology European Neuroblastoma (SIOPEN).
“The results of this study are exciting for patients with high-risk neuroblastoma whose tumors have a genetic alteration in the ALK gene and who have lacked effective targeted treatment options for this often lethal cancer,” said senior study author
Yael P. Mossé, MD
, professor of pediatrics in the
Cancer Center
at CHOP. “This study is the culmination of decades of work that began at CHOP with our initial discovery of ALK mutations in neuroblastoma in 2008. The difficulties we experienced in targeting ALK with crizotinib in neuroblastoma motivated us to find a more potent ALK inhibitor. We started testing lorlatinib in the lab in 2013 and, as a result of this clinical trial, lorlatinib has now moved upfront in a pivotal COG phase 3 trial, which will hopefully support eventual FDA approval of this treatment. This serves as a paramount example across all pediatric cancers of forward and reverse translation, where we learn from the science and from our patients and make decisions in real-time to fast-track development of new agents when there is potential for substantive impact.”
“The profound clinical responses seen in this trial, in a highly therapy-resistant, relapsed pediatric cancer population, allows us to now offer lorlatinib into frontline care for newly diagnosed patients with ALK mutated or amplified neuroblastoma, a population known to have inferior survival with standard-of-care, high-risk therapy,” said the study’s first author and cochair of the trial
Kelly Goldsmith, MD
, coleader of the Discovery & Developmental Therapeutics Program at Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University, director of the Neuroblastoma/MIBG Therapy Program at the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta and associate professor of pediatrics at Emory University School of Medicine. “This trial will truly change the paradigm of clinical care and improve outcomes for our neuroblastoma patients.”
Neuroblastoma is an aggressive pediatric cancer that develops from early nerve cells, often appearing as a solid tumor in the chest or abdomen. The disease accounts for up to 10% of childhood cancer deaths, and survival rates are low — less than 50% of patients with the disease survive, and there is still no known curative therapy for patients who suffer a relapse, despite recent improvements in our understanding of this disease and the development of new treatment options. A notoriously challenging disease to cure, neuroblastoma is characterized by a variety of types and subtypes caused by separate and interacting gene mutations, which only adds to the complexity in devising rational and effective therapies.
A crucial discovery
In 2008,
Mossé and colleagues discovered
that the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene causes most cases of rare, inherited neuroblastoma. Since then, she and colleagues from around the world have investigated how mutations in the ALK gene lead to different types of nonhereditary neuroblastoma. Subsequent research has showed that abnormal ALK changes drive approximately 20% of newly diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma and that this frequency is substantially higher among relapsed patients.
Based on Mossé’s discovery, in 2009 COG launched a clinical trial for children with neuroblastoma that repurposed crizotinib, an ALK inhibitor that was already approved by the FDA to treat adults with a subtype of lung cancer caused by abnormalities in the ALK gene. This pivotal phase 1/2 trial led to the FDA approval of crizotinib for pediatric patients with relapsed/refractory
ALK+ anaplastic large cell lymphoma
and for pediatric patients with ALK+ unresectable/relapsed
inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors
.
Next-generation treatment
However, although crizotinib demonstrated impressive response rates in other ALK-driven cancers, data from the phase 2 COG trial showed that children with neuroblastoma had a response rate of only about 15%, underscoring the need for a next-generation ALK inhibitor that would be more effective.
After screening numerous anti-ALK agents, the researchers discovered in preclinical tests that lorlatinib, an ALK and ROS-1 inhibitor, surpassed results seen with crizotinib. Leveraging that data, the researchers were able to test the safety, tolerability and anti-tumor activity of lorlatinib in a first-in-child NANT Consortium Phase 1 trial in children, adolescents and adults with ALK-driven refractory/relapsed neuroblastoma.
New approaches show promise
In the phase 1 NANT trial, researchers found that lorlatinib given alone or in combination with chemotherapy was safe and tolerable in pediatric, adolescent and adult patients with relapsed/refractory ALK-driven neuroblastoma. Lorlatinib demonstrated clinical activity across patients of all ages harboring the three neuroblastoma-specific hotspot ALK mutations, including patients who had previously received other ALK inhibitors.
Approximately 30% of patients under the age of 18 responded to the drug, and approximately 67% of patients over 18 responded. Patients under the age of 18 had a better response in combination with chemotherapy, with 63% of patients responding to the combined treatment. The researchers noted that younger patients treated with lorlatinib alone — particularly those with amplification of an oncogene called
MYCN
—
had fewer responses compared to older patients. They suspect this could reflect the heterogeneity within the tumor in these patients and indicate that for patients with
MYCN
mutations, lorlatinib alone will be insufficient, but holds promise when given in combination with chemotherapy. Swiftly moving this drug upfront for the subset of patients with ALK alterations provides an opportunity to go after a key driver of this disease to prevent relapse.
The safety profile of lorlatinib across all ages was similar in scope and grade to those reported in studies examining lorlatinib in non-small cell lung cancer. The neuroblastoma patients using lorlatinib also experienced weight gain and increased circulating lipids, but those were manageable with supportive care and diet management.
In addition to the NANT sites in the U.S. and Canada, the study also included sites in the U.K. and France.
The trial was funded by the National Cancer Institute (grant P01CA217959) and Pfizer, Inc. Additional support came from NCI grants R01CA140198 and R35CA220500, as well as Solving Kids Cancer US/UK, the St. Baldrick's Foundation, V Foundation for Cancer Research, Alex’s Lemonade Stand Foundation, Children’s Neuroblastoma Cancer Foundation, The Band of Parents, the EVAN Foundation, Wade’s Army, Ronan Thompson Foundation, the Catherine Elizabeth Blair Memorial Foundation, and Cookies for Kids Cancer.
Goldsmith et al. “Lorlatinib with or without chemotherapy in ALK-driven refractory/relapsed neuroblastoma: phase I trial results,”
Nature Medicine
, April 3, 2023, DOI: 10.1038/s41591-023-02297-5.
Skip sidebar content
Print
Resources
Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University
Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta
Tags
Health
Winship Cancer Institute
School of Medicine
Woodruff Health Sciences Center
Children's Healthcare of Atlanta
Cancer
Research
Health Sciences Research
Pediatrics
News Releases
Recent News
Download Emory News Photo
By downloading Emory news media, you agree to the following terms of use:
Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License
By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License ("Public License"). To the extent this Public License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the Licensed Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of benefits the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available under these terms and conditions.
Section 1 – Definitions.
Adapted Material
means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material is always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation with a moving image.
Copyright and Similar Rights
means copyright and/or similar rights closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance, broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License, the rights specified in Section
2(b)(1)-(2)
are not Copyright and Similar Rights.
Effective Technological Measures
means those measures that, in the absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December 20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.
Exceptions and Limitations
means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to Your use of the Licensed Material.
Licensed Material
means the artistic or literary work, database, or other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.
Licensed Rights
means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the Licensor has authority to license.
Licensor
means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under this Public License.
Share
means to provide material to the public by any means or process that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways that members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time individually chosen by them.
Sui Generis Database Rights
means rights other than copyright resulting from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.
You
means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under this Public License.
Your
has a corresponding meaning.
Section 2 – Scope.
License grant
.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed Material to:
reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in part; and
produce and reproduce, but not Share, Adapted Material.
Exceptions and Limitations
. For the avoidance of doubt, where Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does not apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.
Term
. The term of this Public License is specified in Section
6(a)
.
Media and formats; technical modifications allowed
. The Licensor authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter created, and to make technical modifications necessary to do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to forbid You from making technical modifications necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including technical modifications necessary to circumvent Effective Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply making modifications authorized by this Section
2(a)(4)
never produces Adapted Material.
Downstream recipients
.
Offer from the Licensor – Licensed Material
. Every recipient of the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public License.
No downstream restrictions
. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed Material.
No endorsement
. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as provided in Section
3(a)(1)(A)(i)
.
Other rights
.
Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not otherwise.
Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public License.
To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly reserves any right to collect such royalties.
Section 3 – License Conditions.
Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following conditions.
Attribution
.
If You Share the Licensed Material, You must:
retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with the Licensed Material:
identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);
a copyright notice;
a notice that refers to this Public License;
a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;
a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent reasonably practicable;
indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an indication of any previous modifications; and
indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, You do not have permission under this Public License to Share Adapted Material.
You may satisfy the conditions in Section
3(a)(1)
in any reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required information.
If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the information required by Section
3(a)(1)(A)
to the extent reasonably practicable.
Section 4 – Sui Generis Database Rights.
Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material:
for the avoidance of doubt, Section
2(a)(1)
grants You the right to extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database, provided You do not Share Adapted Material;
if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is Adapted Material; and
You must comply with the conditions in Section
3(a)
if You Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section
4
supplements and does not replace Your obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other Copyright and Similar Rights.
Section 5 – Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.
Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to You.
The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.
Section 6 – Term and Termination.
This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License, then Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.
Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under Section
6(a)
, it reinstates:
automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or
upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section
6(b)
does not affect any right the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.
Sections
1
,
5
,
6
,
7
, and
8
survive termination of this Public License.
Section 7 – Other Terms and Conditions.
The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.
Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and conditions of this Public License.
Section 8 – Interpretation.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this Public License.
To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the remaining terms and conditions.
No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.
Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or authority.
Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding, Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it publishes and in those instances will be considered the “Licensor.” The text of the Creative Commons public licenses is dedicated to the public domain under the
CC0 Public Domain Dedication
. Except for the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons policies published at
creativecommons.org/policies
, Creative Commons does not authorize the use of the trademark “Creative Commons” or any other trademark or logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph does not form part of the public licenses.
I agree, Download image
I decline
Schools
Emory College
Oxford College
Business
                                                School
School of Nursing
Emory Continuing Education
Nondegree
                                                Programs
Pre-College Program
Business School
Graduate School
School of Law
School of Medicine
School of Nursing
School of Public Health
School of Theology
Resources
About the Emory News Center
Contact
People Directory
Help and Resources
Administrative
                                        Offices
Emory Healthcare
Woodruff Health Sciences
                                        Center
Libraries
Bookstore
Alumni
Giving
Information Technology (IT)
Careers
Human Resources
Compliance
For
                                        Students
For
                                        Faculty and Staff
Emory University
201 Dowman Drive
Atlanta,
GA
30322
404.727.6123
Contact
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Copyright © 2022
Emory
                        University
EO/AA
                        Statement
|
Copyright
Back to top
