http://www.family.emory.edu/
Parent and Family Programs | Emory University | Atlanta GA
EMORY FORWARD
Emory Home
Campus Life
Contact ECL
Giving
Search
Submit
PARENT AND FAMILY PROGRAMS
Get Involved
Family Weekend
Resources
Visit
Give
About
Parent and Family Programs
at Emory University
Welcome Emory Families!
The Office of Parent & Family Programs seeks to inform, educate and engage parents and families with the life of the university. As your students transition and develop through their Emory experiences, we consider you a valued partner in helping with their growth and transition. Our goal is to offer resources, programs and events that will help you understand collegiate life as well as the developmental process of your students. As they grow more independent and progress to adulthood, we look forward to challenging and supporting them each step of the way. We hope you will engage with Emory in meaningful ways through the resources offered here and throughout Emory University. Thank you for being a part of our Emory family!
Inform, Educate, Engage
Major initiatives
Emory Parent and Family Experience
Portal for families to have 24/7 access to info and resources about Emory as well as individualized student info (such as student grades, class schedule, and EmoryCard balance) and regularly scheduled newsletters.
Family Fridays
Weekly webinars on Fridays at Noon EST that provide helpful information about what your student is learning at Emory both inside and outside of the classroom
Summer Send Offs
Meet members of your Emory community now, at a virtual Summer Send-off — a gathering where you can connect with fellow incoming classmates, and where current students and alumni will share their stories, insights, and advice.
Family Weekend
A special weekend set aside to engage families with the Emory collegiate experience and to enjoy time with students at their college home and in Atlanta.
Sign Up for the Parent Portal
Your one-stop shop for - Access to important campus news and deadlines. - Insight into your student's progress and financial details. - Personalized newsletters on your schedule. - Announcements via email; Sharing of updates with friends and family.
Sign Up
New Student Programs
Emory College of Arts and Sciences
This office works with students and families from the time they deposit until they enter the university in the fall semester.
Learn More
Helpful Links
The following quick links are to the most frequently requested Emory resources.
Campus Life
University Calendar
Residence Life and Housing Operations
Athletics and Recreation
Office of Undergraduate Education
Dining
Bookstore
Student Accounts and Billing
Emory Police
EmoryCard
*If you need to reach your student for an emergency situation, the Emory Police will contact Campus Life on-call staff who will contact the student.
Welcome to Emory
Thank you for being a part of our Emory family!
201 Dowman Drive. Atlanta, Georgia 30322 USA
campuslife@emory.edu
404-727-5693 (Campus Life Central)
Emory Home
Campus Life
Campus Map
Directory
Contacts
Emergency
Jobs
Support
Emory's Web
Twitter
Instagram
Facebook
YouTube
Copyright © 2017 Emory University - All Rights Reserved
