https://news.emory.edu/stories/2023/01/hs_aaas_fellows_30-01-20232/story.html
Emory faculty named 2022 fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
Top of page
Skip to main content
Emory University
Emory News Center
Menu
Latest News
Academics
Arts and Culture
Community
COVID-19
Faculty
Health
Humanities
International
Philanthropy
Politics
Religion and Ethics
Research
Science
Service and Volunteering
Students
Sustainability
University
All News Topics
Campus News
Around Campus
Students
Faculty
Staff
Alumni
Events
Racial and Social Justice Initiatives
Scholarships and Fellowships
Service and Volunteering
All News Topics
For Media
Contact
News Releases
Emory University Home
Subscribe to RSS
Main content
Main content
Emory faculty named 2022 fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
Jan. 31, 2023
Media Contact
Brian Katzowitz
Senior Director, Health Communications and Media Relations
Emory faculty members named 2022 Fellows for the American Association for the Advancement of Science include (top row, left to right) President Gregory L. Fenves, Reshma Jagsi, Kathy Griendling, (bottom row, left to right) David S. Weiss, Anita H. Corbett and Ben Lopman.
The American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) has named six Emory faculty members as 2022 Fellows, which is one of the largest classes of AAAS Fellows selected from Emory in more than a century. These scientific leaders have been awarded the distinction of Fellow because of their efforts toward advancing science applications that are deemed scientifically or socially distinguished.
The following Emory faculty have been elected as 2022 AAAS Fellows:
Gregory L. Fenves, PhD,
has a nearly 40-year career as an educator, engineering researcher and higher education leader. He has been elected for his “academic leadership and contributions to computational modeling and the creation of open-source software for earthquake engineering analysis.” He has been president of Emory University since 2020. Prior to Emory, he was president of The University of Texas at Austin from 2015 to 2020, having previously served as executive vice president and provost and dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering. Fenves was a faculty member at the University of California, Berkeley, for 20 years and served as chair of its Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering.
Anita H. Corbett, PhD,
a Samuel C. Dobbs Professor of Biology in the Emory College of Arts and Sciences, has made “distinguished contributions to the fields of molecular biology and biochemistry, particularly studies of RNA binding proteins linked to human disease.” She joined Emory College of Arts and Sciences administration in 2022 as senior associate dean for research. In this role, she coordinates efforts to promote and support research by the faculty in the arts and sciences. She also works with the Office for Undergraduate Education to support and promote research by Emory College students. She received her PhD from Vanderbilt University in 1992 and did postdoctoral work at Harvard Medical School before joining Emory in 1997.
Kathy Griendling, PhD,
is a professor of medicine in the Cardiology Division, vice chair for research in the Department of Medicine and executive associate dean for faculty affairs and professional development in the School of Medicine. Griendling has been a leader in basic vascular biology research for the past 30 years and is cited for her “distinguished contributions to the field of physiology and founding the field of vascular NADPH oxidases.” She has published more than 150 original research articles, 98 book chapters and reviews, 18 editorials and edited two books. Three of her papers have been cited more than 2,000 times and her work has resulted in five patents.
David S. Weiss, PhD,
is a professor of medicine in the Infectious Diseases Division at Emory University School of Medicine, director of the Emory Antibiotic Research Center and a faculty member in the Emory Vaccine Center. His research is largely focused on understanding mechanisms of antibiotic resistance, one of the world’s greatest public health threats, and is cited for his distinguished contributions to “the development of methods to detect and treat resistant infections.” Weiss received his PhD in microbiology from New York University in 2004 and completed his postdoctoral training at Stanford University before joining Emory University.
Ben Lopman, PhD,
is professor of epidemiology at the Rollins School of Public Health, with a secondary appointment in environmental health. He has made significant contributions “to the field of infectious diseases, particularly for the study of the epidemiology of enteric diseases, evaluation of new vaccines, and modeling the impact of vaccination strategies.” Since the onset of the pandemic, Lopman’s team has worked extensively on the epidemiology of COVID-19, developing population-based methods to monitor the pandemic, model transmission and vaccination and designing studies for vaccine evaluation.
Reshma Jagsi, MD, DPhil
, is acting professor and chair of the Department of Radiation Oncology at Emory University School of Medicine. She is both a radiation oncologist specializing in the care of patients with breast cancer and a bioethicist, and she has been elected for her efforts in “reframing gender disparities as an ethical issue, leading institutions, funders, and professional societies to change their policies.” An internationally recognized clinical trialist and health services researcher, her medical research is funded by the National Institutes of Health and focuses on improving the quality of care received by patients with breast cancer, both by advancing the ways in which breast cancer is treated with radiation and by advancing the understanding of patient decision-making, cost and access to appropriate care.
These distinguished researchers join a class of 508 scientists, engineers and innovators spanning 24 scientific disciplines. To be considered for the rank of Fellow, members must be nominated by the steering group of one of the association’s 24 sections, by three previously elected Fellows or by the AAAS chief executive officer.
An induction ceremony will be held in Washington, DC, in the spring of 2023.
The American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) is the world’s largest general scientific society and publisher of the journal
Science, as well as Science Translational Medicine; Science Signaling; a digital, open-access journal, Science Advances; Science Immunology
;
and Science Robotics. AAAS was founded in 1848 and includes more than 250 affiliated societies and academies of science, serving 10 million individuals. The nonprofit AAAS is open to all and fulfills its mission to “advance science and serve society” through initiatives in science policy, international programs, science education, public engagement and more. For additional information about AAAS, see
www.aaas.org
.
Skip sidebar content
Print
Tags
Woodruff Health Sciences Center
Awards and Distinctions
School of Public Health
School of Medicine
Research
Science
Emory College
Faculty
News Releases
Recent News
Download Emory News Photo
By downloading Emory news media, you agree to the following terms of use:
Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License
By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License ("Public License"). To the extent this Public License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the Licensed Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of benefits the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available under these terms and conditions.
Section 1 – Definitions.
Adapted Material
means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material is always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation with a moving image.
Copyright and Similar Rights
means copyright and/or similar rights closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance, broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License, the rights specified in Section
2(b)(1)-(2)
are not Copyright and Similar Rights.
Effective Technological Measures
means those measures that, in the absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December 20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.
Exceptions and Limitations
means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to Your use of the Licensed Material.
Licensed Material
means the artistic or literary work, database, or other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.
Licensed Rights
means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the Licensor has authority to license.
Licensor
means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under this Public License.
Share
means to provide material to the public by any means or process that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways that members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time individually chosen by them.
Sui Generis Database Rights
means rights other than copyright resulting from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.
You
means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under this Public License.
Your
has a corresponding meaning.
Section 2 – Scope.
License grant
.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed Material to:
reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in part; and
produce and reproduce, but not Share, Adapted Material.
Exceptions and Limitations
. For the avoidance of doubt, where Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does not apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.
Term
. The term of this Public License is specified in Section
6(a)
.
Media and formats; technical modifications allowed
. The Licensor authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter created, and to make technical modifications necessary to do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to forbid You from making technical modifications necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including technical modifications necessary to circumvent Effective Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply making modifications authorized by this Section
2(a)(4)
never produces Adapted Material.
Downstream recipients
.
Offer from the Licensor – Licensed Material
. Every recipient of the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public License.
No downstream restrictions
. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed Material.
No endorsement
. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as provided in Section
3(a)(1)(A)(i)
.
Other rights
.
Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not otherwise.
Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public License.
To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly reserves any right to collect such royalties.
Section 3 – License Conditions.
Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following conditions.
Attribution
.
If You Share the Licensed Material, You must:
retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with the Licensed Material:
identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);
a copyright notice;
a notice that refers to this Public License;
a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;
a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent reasonably practicable;
indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an indication of any previous modifications; and
indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, You do not have permission under this Public License to Share Adapted Material.
You may satisfy the conditions in Section
3(a)(1)
in any reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required information.
If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the information required by Section
3(a)(1)(A)
to the extent reasonably practicable.
Section 4 – Sui Generis Database Rights.
Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material:
for the avoidance of doubt, Section
2(a)(1)
grants You the right to extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database, provided You do not Share Adapted Material;
if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is Adapted Material; and
You must comply with the conditions in Section
3(a)
if You Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section
4
supplements and does not replace Your obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other Copyright and Similar Rights.
Section 5 – Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.
Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to You.
The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.
Section 6 – Term and Termination.
This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License, then Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.
Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under Section
6(a)
, it reinstates:
automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or
upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section
6(b)
does not affect any right the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public License.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.
Sections
1
,
5
,
6
,
7
, and
8
survive termination of this Public License.
Section 7 – Other Terms and Conditions.
The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.
Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and conditions of this Public License.
Section 8 – Interpretation.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this Public License.
To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the remaining terms and conditions.
No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.
Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or authority.
Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding, Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it publishes and in those instances will be considered the “Licensor.” The text of the Creative Commons public licenses is dedicated to the public domain under the
CC0 Public Domain Dedication
. Except for the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons policies published at
creativecommons.org/policies
, Creative Commons does not authorize the use of the trademark “Creative Commons” or any other trademark or logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph does not form part of the public licenses.
I agree, Download image
I decline
Schools
Emory College
Oxford College
Business
                                                School
School of Nursing
Emory Continuing Education
Nondegree
                                                Programs
Pre-College Program
Business School
Graduate School
School of Law
School of Medicine
School of Nursing
School of Public Health
School of Theology
Resources
About the Emory News Center
Contact
People Directory
Help and Resources
Administrative
                                        Offices
Emory Healthcare
Woodruff Health Sciences
                                        Center
Libraries
Bookstore
Alumni
Giving
Information Technology (IT)
Careers
Human Resources
Compliance
For
                                        Students
For
                                        Faculty and Staff
Emory University
201 Dowman Drive
Atlanta,
GA
30322
404.727.6123
Contact
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Copyright © 2022
Emory
                        University
EO/AA
                        Statement
|
Copyright
Back to top
