http://equityandinclusion.emory.edu/about/resources/policies/eoaa.html
Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Statements | Emory University | Atlanta GA
Top of page
Skip to main content
Emory University
Institutional Equity and Compliance
Menu
Home
About Us
About Us Overview
Mission and Vision
Values and Policies
Contact Us
Staff Directory
Equity and Inclusion
(current)
Equity & Inclusion Overview
Affirmative Action
Discrimination and Harassment
Equal Opportunity and Discriminatory Harassment Policy
Faculty Recruitment
Training
Equity & Inclusion Staff Directory
Title IX
Title IX Overview
Guidelines and Procedures
Reporting and FAQ's
Sex and Gender-Based Harassment and Discrimination Policy
Sexual Misconduct Resources
Title IX Staff Directory
Accessibility Services
Resources
Resources Overview
Self-Guided Learning
Campus Partners
Policies
Newsletters
Main content
Home
Equity and Inclusion
Affirmative Action
EO/AA Statements
Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Statements
Federal law requires that Emory University state its commitment to equal opportunity and affirmative action in all recruiting announcements and advertisements. This requirement applies at all department, division, and university-wide levels.
Emory's EO/AA statement must appear on all print and online versions of university publications that are made available to students, employees, applicants, program participants, and the general public. The statement should be positioned in a prominent location—usually near the front or back cover of a document or immediately before or after an ad. For publications that invite participation or attendance at an event, additional information regarding disability accommodations also must be included.
Here are some examples of publications that must contain the statement:
Applications
Brochures
Handbooks
Job postings
Magazines
Newsletters
Posters
Stationery
Below you will find the short, medium, and long versions of Emory's EO/AA statements, along with guidelines on which version to use for your publication.
Short
For posters, stationery, and publications with significant space limitations:
EO/AA/Disability/Veteran Employer
For position advertisements:
Emory University is an equal employment opportunity and affirmative action employer. Women, minorities, people with disabilities, and veterans are strongly encouraged to apply.
or
EO/AA/Disability/Veteran Employer
Medium
For annual reports, magazines, brochures, and newsletters:
Emory University is an equal opportunity/equal access/affirmative action employer fully committed to achieving a diverse workforce and complies with all applicable Federal and Georgia State laws, regulations, and executive orders regarding nondiscrimination and affirmative action in its programs and activities. Emory University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, ethnic or national origin, gender, genetic information, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, and veteran's status. Inquiries should be directed to the Department of Equity and Inclusion, 201 Dowman Drive, Administration Bldg, Atlanta, GA 30322. Telephone: 404-727-9867 (V) | 404-712-2049 (TDD).
If the publication invites participation or attendance, include the following sentences regarding disability accommodations:
Should you need this document in an alternate format, or require a reasonable accommodation, please contact the Department of Accessibility Services at 404-727-9877 (V) | 404-712-2049 (TDD). Please note that one week's advance notice is preferred.
Long
For application forms, job postings, student/employee handbooks, and catalogs:
Emory University is dedicated to providing equal opportunities and equal access to all individuals regardless of race, color, religion, ethnic or national origin, gender, genetic information, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, and veteran's status. Emory University does not discriminate in admissions, educational programs, or employment on the basis of any factor stated above or prohibited under applicable law. Students, faculty, and staff are assured of participation in university programs and in the use of facilities without such discrimination. Emory University complies with Executive Order 11246, as amended, Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Vietnam Era Veteran's Readjustment Assistance Act, and applicable executive orders, federal and state regulations regarding nondiscrimination, equal opportunity, and affirmative action. Emory University is committed to achieving a diverse workforce through application of its affirmative action, equal opportunity, and nondiscrimination policy in all aspects of employment including recruitment, hiring, promotions, transfers, discipline, terminations, wage and salary administration, benefits, and training. Inquiries regarding this policy should be directed to the Emory University Department of Equity and Inclusion, 201 Dowman Drive, Administration Building, Atlanta, GA 30322. Telephone: 404-727-9867 (V) | 404-712-2049 (TDD).
For job postings, please add the following sentences regarding reasonable accommodations:
Emory University is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities upon request. To request this document in an alternate format or to request a reasonable accommodation, please contact the Department of Accessibility Services at 404-727-9877 (V) | 404-712-2049 (TDD). Please note that one week's advance notice is preferred.
Equity and Inclusion
Affirmative Action
Federal Laws and Regulations
EO/AA Statements
Labor and EEO Law Posters
Affirmative Action Plan FAQs
EEO Demographic Data
Data Request Form
Discrimination and Harassment
Equal Opportunity and Discriminatory Harassment Policy
Faculty Recruitment
Staff Directory
Back to main content
Back to top
Accessibility Services
Provost
Compliance
305 Administration Building
201 Dowman Drive
Atlanta, Georgia 30322
oei@emory.edu
404.727.9867
Copyright ©
Emory University
EO/AA Statement
|
Copyright
Back to top
