https://gca.emory.edu/community/index.html
Community Engagement | Government and Community Affairs | Emory University | Atlanta GA
Top of page
Skip to main content
Emory University
Government and Community Affairs
Menu
For Faculty + Staff
For Students
Contact Us
Home
About Us
Government Relations
Community Engagement
(current)
Campus Resources
Main content
Community Engagement
Helping to Deliver Results + Solve Problems
Emory’s Community Engagement Strategy, launched in 2021, aligns our university vision, mission,
strategic framework
, and institutional values with purposeful and measurable community engagement efforts.
Where there are common interests and alignment, we aspire to address local and global societal challenges by building on community strengths and strategic partnerships.
Our goal is to
ensure the intentional use of our research, scholarship, and human capital—including faculty, staff, students, and alumni—as well as our economic influence—such as local buying and hiring—by focusing our efforts on the greatest need areas, as determined by internal capacity and external community feedback.
We look forward to growing and measuring our collective work over time.
Priorities + Initiatives
Strategic Priorities
Health and well-being | Social and economic mobility | Arts, science, and cultural enrichment
Key Goals
Major Initiatives
Some of our major initiatives with community partners
Partnerships in action
Local Impact
Areas where we really focus our efforts
Counties, Cities, Towns
Emory Impact Report
Explore Emory University's impact in areas from academics and research to Atlanta and the world.
2019 Impact Report
Community Engagement Strategy
Emory’s new Community Engagement Strategy seeks to make a deeper impact in Atlanta and Georgia through its continued work to identify, address, and solve challenges in our city and state with our community partners. To do this, we will be concentrating on three areas of focus: social and economic mobility; health and well-being; and arts, science, and cultural enrichment.
Artwork by Emory students in the
Arts and Social Justice Fellows
program.
Read More in Emory Report
Making Connections
Our Team
Find colleagues who can help you make community contacts.
Meet the Team
How to Partner with Emory
Review our guidelines for establishing Emory-related partnerships in the community.
Partnership Guidelines
Emory University will enhance and develop thriving, mutually beneficial, and sustained partnerships that build on community assets and our greatest institutional strengths and resources—including our faculty, staff, students, and alumni—to address critical challenges in our community.
Community Engagement Mission
Back to main content
Back to top
Engage with Emory
Communications and Marketing
Advancement and Alumni Engagement
Center for Civic and Community Engagement
Emory Events
Emory / Global
Emory Healthcare
Emory News Center
Emory OPEN
Office of the President
Government and Community Affairs
1599 Clifton Road
Fifth Floor
Atlanta, Georgia 30322
404.727.5311
Copyright ©
Emory University
EO/AA Statement
|
Copyright
Back to top
