http://web.mit.edu/campus-life
Campus Life | MIT - Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Skip to content ↓
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Education
Research
Innovation
Admissions + Aid
Campus Life
News
Alumni
About MIT
More
↓
Admissions + Aid
Campus Life
News
Alumni
About MIT
Menu
↓
Search
Menu
Explore websites, people, and locations
Look up people by “last name sounds like”
What are you looking for?
See More Results
Suggestions or feedback?
Home
Campus Life
Campus Life
MIT’s collaborative, hands-on, curiosity-driven ethos in the classroom and lab extends across our campus — and beyond. On the
stage
or
field
, in
makerspaces
,
living communities
, and the surrounding area, MIT is where brilliant, committed, creative people come together to learn, work, live, and play.
Diverse in every sense of the word, our community is a playground for opportunity in the heart of a
global innovation hub
. Just 364.4
smoots
(plus or minus one ear) across the Charles River from Boston — one of the best cities in the world for students — our 166-acre riverside campus brims with daring
artists
, talented
athletes
, and a
club
for just about anything.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Student Life
With 500+ student organizations (
chocolate science
, anyone?), nearly
40 Greek-letter and independent living groups
,
chaplains
for more than 20 faith traditions, and a commitment to
diversity and inclusion
, student life at MIT offers a welcoming place for everyone. To complement their academics and research, students choose their own extracurricular adventures
,
from a spectacular array of ways to participate in music, dance, and sports to dozens of groups that savor and celebrate cultures from around the world. To help students navigate challenges, MIT offers a strong support network (bolstered by occasional visits from
puppies, pigs, and pygmy goats
).
Top Resources
Division of Student Life
Diversity & Inclusion
Student Activities
Support for Undergraduate Students
Support for Graduate Students & Families
Tim the Beaver is MIT’s mascot.
Housing & Dining
Our residence halls are part entertainment center, part brain trust, part support system, and wholly central to students’ MIT experience. Campus residences have distinct personalities and traditions (
like a cross-campus water fight!
), which contribute as much to our students’ growth as their academic experiences do. Dining at MIT is about choice and flexibility, with five dining halls, nearly 20 retail eateries, and meal plans that allow students to enjoy it all.
Top Resources
MIT Dining
Undergraduate Housing
Graduate Student & Family Housing
Off-Campus Housing
Residential Education
Maseeh Hall is a coed residence for undergraduate students.
Athletics & Recreation
MIT’s
Department of Athletics, Physical Education, and Recreation
offers sports instruction and participation at all levels. With 33 varsity sports — 16 for men, 15 for women, two co-ed — the Engineers boast 318 Academic All-America citations (the most in the country) and over 1,500 athletic All-America honors. We also work to foster community, inspire leadership, and promote wellness through physical education, recreation programs, club sports, intramurals — and, for the swashbuckling,
the pirate arts
.
Top Resources
Varsity Athletics
Physical Education
Recreation
Club Sports
Intramurals
Players on the women’s tennis team celebrate a win.
The MIT Shotokan Karate Club in competition.
Arts
The arts thrive naturally in MIT’s creative culture of experimentation and innovation that crosses every discipline. On a campus that features more than 3,500 noted works of contemporary art and landmark buildings by legendary architects like Frank Gehry and I.M. Pei, more than half of all undergraduates enroll in arts classes each year.
Top Resources
Arts at MIT
Academics
Events & Visit
Exhibitions & Galleries
List Visual Arts Center
Public Art Map
A student presents his work in an architecture critique.
A responsive environment developed at MIT reacts as a visiting artist plays the cello.
Diversity & Inclusion
At MIT, we welcome and support a
diverse community
of remarkable talent. But we know that to make a better world, we must work to continually make a better MIT. With that inspiration, we strive to remove barriers to talent wherever we find them, to build mutual understanding across our campus, to celebrate our wonderful range of cultures and backgrounds — and to help everyone in our community feel at home at MIT.
Top Resources
Institute Community and Equity Office
Office of Minority Education
Graduate Student Diversity Initiatives
Social Justice Programming & Cross-Cultural Engagement
Religious, Spiritual & Ethical Life
The MIT Gospel Choir performs at the MLK luncheon.
Health & Wellness
Succeeding at MIT means staying healthy — mind and hand, body and soul. Everyone needs a checkup or a check-in sometime. The Institute’s network of physical and mental support resources aims to keep our community happy, healthy, and active. And, through initiatives like
MindHandHeart
, we are always looking for ways to engage students, faculty, and staff to make MIT stronger and more welcoming.
Top Resources
Community Wellness at MIT Medical
Student Mental Health and Counseling Services
MindHandHeart
Stress Reduction, Mindfulness & Relaxation
Urgent Care
MIT Medical offers numerous classes through Community Wellness.
Students relieve stress by cuddling with canines from the Puppy Lab.
Studying outside on a warm day
A tribute to the legendary “police car hack,” on display in the Stata Center
To showcase their community during orientation for first-year students, East Campus residents built a wooden roller coaster in their courtyard.
The campus on a fall day
Graduate students at the Presidential Scholars reception
Staff celebrate their colleagues at the Excellence Awards.
The MIT sailing team in competition
A little winter fun
Performers at a music festival
prev
next
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Education
Research
Innovation
Admissions + Aid
Campus Life
News
news.mit.edu
About MIT
Alumni
Join us in building a better world.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA, USA
Visit
Map
Events
People
Careers
Contact
Privacy
Accessibility
Social Media Hub
