http://web.mit.edu/education
Education | MIT - Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Skip to content ↓
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Education
Research
Innovation
Admissions + Aid
Campus Life
News
Alumni
About MIT
More
↓
Admissions + Aid
Campus Life
News
Alumni
About MIT
Menu
↓
Search
Menu
Explore websites, people, and locations
Look up people by “last name sounds like”
What are you looking for?
See More Results
Suggestions or feedback?
Home
Education
Education
At MIT, we revel in a culture of learning by doing. In
30 departments across five schools and one college
, our students combine analytical rigor with curiosity, playful imagination, and an appetite for solving the hardest problems in
service to society
.
Our undergraduates work
shoulder to shoulder with faculty
, tackle
global challenges
, pursue fundamental questions, and translate ideas into action. The lifeblood of the Institute’s teaching and research enterprise, our
graduate students
and
postdocs
represent one of the most talented and diverse cohorts in the world. From science and engineering to the arts, architecture, humanities, social sciences, and management, and
interdisciplinary programs
, we offer excellence across the board. We also pioneer digital education — like
MITx
— which offers flexible access to MIT-rigorous content for learners of all ages.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Schools, Departments & the College
Across MIT, faculty help set the global standard of excellence in their disciplines: They are pioneering scholars who love to teach. Deeply engaged in practice, they topple conventional walls between fields in the push for deeper understanding and fresh ideas. In fact, many faculty actively work in at least one of MIT’s interdisciplinary labs, centers, initiatives, and institutes that target crucial challenges, from
clean energy
to
cancer
.
The MIT Schwarzman College of Computing, opened in fall 2019, is a cross-cutting entity with education and research links across all five schools.
Explore Departments
Top Resources
Departments by School
School of Architecture and Planning
School of Engineering
School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences
MIT Sloan School of Management
School of Science
MIT Schwarzman College of Computing
Teaching & Learning
Our campus is a workshop for inventing the future and we are all apprentices, learning from each other as we go. Because we like to make things, and we like to make an impact, iconic courses like
2.009
emphasize designing, inventing, collaborating, and translating students’ expertise to reach the world. Through signature experiential learning programs like
UROP
,
UPOP
,
MISTI
,
PKG
,
IAP
,
D-Lab
, and
Sandbox
, students can pursue virtually infinite co-curricular and extracurricular projects — here at MIT, throughout the Greater Boston innovation hub, and around the world. Honeycombed with legendary laboratories and dozens of
makerspaces
, a wind tunnel, a research nuclear reactor, and a
glass lab
, our campus of idiosyncratically numbered buildings adds up to a prime spot to make the most of your potential.
Top Resources
Registrar’s Office
Course Catalog (MIT Bulletin)
DoingWell
Office of the First Year
Office of Graduate Education
Office of Experiential Learning
Teaching + Learning Lab
Open Learning
MIT is pioneering new ways of teaching and learning, on our campus and around the world, by inventing and leveraging digital technologies.
MITx
, the Institute’s portfolio of massively open online courses, offers flexible access to a range of interactive courses developed and taught by instructors from MIT. Another MIT innovation — the
MicroMasters
credential — is increasingly recognized by industry leaders hiring new talent. And MIT’s original digital learning option,
OpenCourseWare
, continues to offer teachers and learners worldwide the materials for more than 2,450 MIT courses, freely available online.
Top Resources
MITx
First-year STEM Classes from MIT
OpenCourseWare
MITx Micromasters
Open Learning
Residential Digital Innovations
Podcasts
Professional & Executive Education
For executives, managers, entrepreneurs, and technical professionals eager to tap fresh thinking and new research from MIT, we offer dozens of executive and professional programs. Some are online. Some are on campus. Ranging from two days to 20 months, they all share MIT’s signature focus on practical solutions for the real world.
Top Resources
Professional & Executive Learning
MIT Professional Education – School of Engineering
Sloan School of Management Executive Education
MIT xPRO
Bootcamps
K-12 Resources
We delight in the beauty and creative power of science, technology, engineering, and math, and we make a special effort to spark that same passion in students from kindergarten through high school — in school, after school, and over the summer. Locally, we engage students, teachers, and families with a range of hands-on K-12 offerings, from structured field trips to MIT’s
Edgerton Center
to programs designed to encourage girls in their love of technology and science. We also offer an array of
resources for teachers
, to help them make science and engineering easy to grasp and irresistibly interesting.
Top Resources
K-12 Science & Engineering Opportunities
OpenCourseWare Highlights for High School
K-12 Outreach
App Inventor
Scratch
Teaching Systems Lab
Lemelson-MIT Program
See Inside Education
Working in the forge, part of the Merton C. Flemings Materials Processing Laboratory
“Everybody,” was the first MIT production to be designed, rehearsed, built, and staged in MIT’s new theater building.
The Infinite Corridor connects many of MIT’s main buildings.
MIT students work on a solar electric vehicle.
Collaboration is a hallmark of an MIT education.
MIT is dedicated to providing its students with an education that combines rigorous academic study and the excitement of discovery.
prev
next
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Education
Research
Innovation
Admissions + Aid
Campus Life
News
news.mit.edu
About MIT
Alumni
Join us in building a better world.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA, USA
Visit
Map
Events
People
Careers
Contact
Privacy
Accessibility
Social Media Hub
