http://web.mit.edu/visitmit
Visit | MIT - Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Skip to content ↓
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Education
Research
Innovation
Admissions + Aid
Campus Life
News
Alumni
About MIT
More
↓
Admissions + Aid
Campus Life
News
Alumni
About MIT
Menu
↓
Search
Menu
Explore websites, people, and locations
Look up people by “last name sounds like”
What are you looking for?
See More Results
Suggestions or feedback?
Home
Visit
Visit
Whether you’re a prospective student or just visiting the Boston area, we invite you to
explore our dynamic campus
and experience firsthand how MIT is
making a better world
.
Visitors are welcome in many campus buildings and our outdoor spaces. See the
visitors policy
for details.
MIT is located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, across the Charles River from Boston, in the vibrant innovation district of
Kendall Square
. Founded in 1865, MIT established a new kind of independent educational institution relevant to an increasingly industrialized America. Since then, the Institute has built a robust tradition of solving problems in the public interest at the intersection of technology and humanity.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Welcome Center
There is construction at the Kendall Square T station next to the Welcome Center; please leave extra time to navigate to our building.
The MIT Welcome Center is open at
292 Main Street in Kendall Square
, conveniently located next to the Kendall/MIT MBTA subway station. Stop by to get guidance about visiting MIT and pick up a
campus map
(and to use the restroom, fill your water bottle, or access free Wi-Fi and power outlets). The adjacent green space is also a great place to have lunch or take a break. Open Monday through Friday, 9 a.m.–5 p.m., excluding
MIT holidays
and Institute closures.
The MIT Welcome Center is a gift of Tina and Hamid (SB 1977, SM 1978) Moghadam.
Visit the MIT Welcome Center at 292 Main Street in Kendall Square.
Photo: Jake Belcher
Campus Tours & Information Sessions
The Undergraduate Admissions office hosts virtual and in-person information sessions for prospective students. Visit
mitadmissions.org/visit
to register. Please note: We are unable to accommodate walk-in guests for information sessions, so please make sure to register in advance.
Prospective graduate students usually arrange visits through individual departments, though the
MIT Sloan School of Management
and select departments within the
School of Engineering
offer tours.
Other resources
School of Engineering audio tour
List Visual Arts Center tour
Many departments, classrooms, and labs radiate from the Infinite Corridor.
Getting Here & Getting Around
A great place to start your visit is at the MIT Welcome Center, located at
292 Main Street, Cambridge
. Parking can be tough here! We recommend public transportation or a taxi/rideshare service (such as Uber or Lyft) to campus.
Via public transportation
Boston’s public transportation system is the
MBTA
, known as “the T.”
Subway
: From any terminal at Logan Airport, take the Silver Line bus to South Station. At South Station, change to the Red Line subway to Kendall/MIT (inbound toward Alewife). The ride should take about 30 minutes and is free.
Bus
: The
64, 68, and 85
lines stop near the MIT Welcome Center. The
#1 bus
stops on Massachusetts Avenue, about a 15-minute walk from the Welcome Center.
Shuttle
: The
EZ Ride shuttle
runs to and from Boston’s North Station, with stops at Kendall Square and around MIT’s campus (Note: EZRide is not operated by the MBTA; fare is $2 cash per trip).
From Logan Airport
Taxi or rideshare
: Taxi fare from the airport is about $35–$40, and a rideshare service can range from about $20–$35. During non-rush hour, the ride will take about 15 minutes; during rush hour, it may take 30 minutes or more.
Subway
: From any terminal at Logan Airport, take the Silver Line bus to South Station. At South Station, change to the Red Line subway to Kendall/MIT (inbound toward Alewife). The ride should take about 30 minutes.
Amtrak
South Station, Boston
, is the closest train station. South Station is served by the MBTA Red Line, which connects to MIT at the MIT/Kendall stop.
Bluebikes
Bluebikes is the Boston area’s public bike share program. There are several
stations around campus
for renting or returning a bike. Visitors may purchase an
Adventure Pass
, which is valid for 24 hours.
Parking
Parking in Cambridge and Boston can be expensive and hard to find. Whenever possible, park where you’re staying and use public transportation or a taxi/rideshare service. If you must drive to the campus, on- and off-street parking is available for a fee, but most
public parking
is not very close to the center of campus. More parking information is available from
Parkopedia
.
Other resources
Campus map
Accessibility map
Campus walking tour
The Kendall/MIT subway station is the closest stop to campus.
The Red Line train crosses the Longfellow Bridge, which connects Cambridge and Boston.
Cyclists pass by the Collier Memorial.
While You’re Here
From art and architecture to history and culture, there is plenty to see and do, both on campus and in the greater Boston area. Explore the
MIT Events Calendar
to see what's happening on campus. Many events are open to the public.
Visitors are welcome in many campus buildings and our outdoor spaces. See the
visitors policy
for details.
On the MIT campus
Stop by
Killian Court
, the leafy oasis where we hold each year’s Commencement, and gaze up at the Great Dome. (At 8,800 square feet, it’s larger than the domes of St. Paul’s in London and the U.S. Capital Building. And it was the site of some historic hacks.)
Take in the galleries and exhibits at the
MIT Museum
—where art, science, and technology intersect—at its new Kendall Square location.
Explore
public art on campus
, including works by Picasso, Calder, and other major artists.
Visit the
List Visual Arts Center
, MIT’s contemporary arts museum.
Witness the work being done at the cutting edge of cancer research at the
Koch Institute Public Galleries
.
See a display of
hacks
on the
Charles M. Vest Student Street in the Stata Center
.
Shop at the
MIT Coop
for MIT-branded apparel and other souvenirs.
Around
Cambridge
and
Boston
Trace the footsteps of Boston’s founders and revolutionaries on the
Freedom Trail
.
Quack your way through a
duck tour
.
Take a short scenic cruise to the
Boston Harbor Islands
.
Tour
Fenway Park
, home of the Boston Red Sox.
Learn about the life and presidency of
John F. Kennedy
at his namesake library.
Experience the exceptional collection of one of the oldest art institutions in the nation, Boston’s
Museum of Fine Arts
, or get some hands-on learning at the
Museum of Science
.
Climb to the top of the
Bunker Hill Monument
for a panoramic view of Boston.
Other resources
Where to eat
Where to stay
Killian Court and the Great Dome
“Alchemist,” by Jaume Plensa, is part of MIT's public art collection.
In 1979, hackers placed a life-size fiberglass cow on the top of the Great Dome. It now resides in the Stata Center.
See one of Arthur Ganson’s mesmerizing kinetic sculptures at the MIT Museum.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Education
Research
Innovation
Admissions + Aid
Campus Life
News
news.mit.edu
About MIT
Alumni
Join us in building a better world.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA, USA
Visit
Map
Events
People
Careers
Contact
Privacy
Accessibility
Social Media Hub
