https://mailchi.mp/4ba4883cd99e/lung-nanoparticles-purpose-vs-profit-palm-oil-substitute
Lung nanoparticles + purpose vs. profit + palm oil substitute
MIT
Daily
March 31, 2023
Greetings!
Here’s the latest from the MIT community.
Have feedback to share? Email
mitdailyeditor@mit.edu
.
Gene Editing in the Lungs
A new type of nanoparticle can be administered to the lungs, where it can deliver messenger RNA encoding useful proteins. With further development, these particles could offer an inhalable treatment for cystic fibrosis and other diseases of the lung.
Full story via MIT News
→
Top Headlines
How to balance purpose and profit
Leaders at the MIT Sloan Retail Conference describe practices that support stakeholder and societal value.
Full story via MIT Sloan
→
MIT School of Engineering welcomes new faculty
Eleven new faculty members join six of the school’s academic departments and institutes.
Full story via MIT News
→
MIT sophomores connect with alumni mentors in professional and leadership development program
UPOP workshop lets students dive into teamwork, problem-solving, and networking.
Full story via MIT News
→
Brewing palm oil from yeast
David Heller ’18 leads C16 Biosciences, a firm that produces an environmentally friendly palm oil substitute.
Full story via Slice of MIT
→
#ThisisMIT
Follow @mitopenspace on Twitter
→
In the Media
Mel King, whose 1983 mayoral campaign ushered in a new era in Boston race relations, dies at 94 // The Boston Globe
Adjunct Professor Emeritus Melvin “Mel” King, a political activist, former Massachusetts state representative, and the first Black person to reach a Boston mayoral general election, has died at 94. “[In 1971], he founded the Community Fellows Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he became an adjunct professor of urban studies and planning. The program brings leaders from minority communities to MIT for a year of research and study.”
Full story via The Boston Globe
→
This edition of the MIT Daily was brought to you by
celebrating Trans Day of Visibility
. 🏳️‍⚧️
Thanks for reading, and have a great weekend!
—MIT News Office
Forward This Email
Subscribe
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
This email was sent to <<Email Address>> because of your affiliation with MIT, or because you signed up for our newsletters.
subscribe
update preferences
unsubscribe
view in browser
MIT News Office · 77 Massachusetts Avenue · Cambridge, MA 02139 · USA
