https://ihq.mit.edu/
Welcome to iHQ - MIT InnovationHQ Welcome to iHQ
Skip to main navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to footer
MIT InnovationHQ
MIT's Home for Innovators & Entrepreneurs
Menu
Search for:
Student Community
Student Community
Student Spaces
Student Leadership Team
Student Venture Studio
Student After Hours Request
Orgs at iHQ
Happening at iHQ
Happening at iHQ
iHQ Summer Session 2022
Host an Event
Host an Event
Hacker Reactor
iHQ Space Request Form
Inclusion
Alumni
Visit
Visit
Tours & Innovation Talks
Skip to menu toggle button
MIT
#MITiHQ
Insta
Twitter
LinkedIn
Facebook
YouTube
Back to top ↑
Welcome to iHQ
This is the home for MIT’s thriving community of innovators & entrepreneurs.
CHECK OUT: iHQ Summer Session
COVID NOTICE:
The general public is allowed in outdoor spaces and select indoor campus spaces; including E38/MIT Welcome Center (first floor). Otherwise, only authorized visitors are allowed inside MIT buildings. Go to
now.mit.edu
for full detail.
What is iHQ?
More than just “a building”, iHQ is the beating heart of the innovation & entrepreneurship (I&E) community at MIT.
It’s the culmination of a decade of careful planning, painstaking reconstruction, and thoughtful community-building.
Located in the heart of Kendall Square
, “the most innovative square mile on the planet”, iHQ creates the opportunity for world-changing impact not only at MIT but throughout the Greater Boston innovation ecosystem and
much
further afield.
The mission of iHQ
InnovationHQ provides a home for MIT’s thriving community of
innovators & entrepreneurs
, supporting all who pursue ideas with a passion for world-changing impact.
All
MIT students are innovators
in their own way. iHQ is a space where students from all five schools & the college can meet, work, brainstorm, and host & attend events. Many aspire to be founders, but not all. iHQ is designed to encourage chance meetings & opportunities that
support
all
students
explore their own unique innovation pathways.
What happens in iHQ?
Innovators meet, collaborate, work, celebrate, and learn.
Featuring over 25,000 square feet of modular workspace and office space for
key I&E organizations
,
iHQ is the hub of innovation activities at MIT. It’s also home to new experimental spaces including
The Voxel Lab
, a fully-equipped makerspace dedicated to nurturing innovation & entrepreneurship in music & the arts at MIT, and the MIT
Alumni Venture Studio
, a home for some of the many alumni programs from I&E organizations.
Events & Meetings at iHQ
Host your event at the Hacker Reactor
, MIT’s newest events & meeting space.
This impressive space on the top floor of iHQ is available to all members of the MIT community for
meetings, events, and conferences
. The Hacker Reactor offers a variety of flexible configurations for groups of up to 120 guests.
Upcoming
events
:
Latest
stories
:
The Register Herald: Historically Black colleges creating agriculture business innovation center
West Virginia State University is partnering with three other Historically Black Colleges and Universities to create an Agriculture Business Innovation Center (ABIC) through a grant from Dept. of Agriculture
Continue reading
“The Register Herald: Historically Black colleges creating agriculture business innovation center”
…
U.S. Space Force selects Arizona State University for partnership
USSF Chief Technology and Innovation Officer Dr. Lisa Costa joined ASU President Michael M. Crow on the Tempe campus to finalize the agreement and to learn more about ASU space initiatives and capabilities.
Continue reading
“U.S. Space Force selects Arizona State University for partnership”
…
FORBES: Emory University’s Student-Run Venture Fund Focuses On Underrepresented Entrepreneurs
The new fund, and corresponding class, teaches students how to confront the industry’s racial biases and invest in underrepresented founders from the start.
Continue reading
“FORBES: Emory University’s Student-Run Venture Fund Focuses On Underrepresented Entrepreneurs”
…
SCIENCE: New NSF program hopes to rev the nation’s ‘engines’ of innovation
Regional centers would get $160 million each to translate research into high-tech jobs and boost local economies
Continue reading
“SCIENCE: New NSF program hopes to rev the nation’s ‘engines’ of innovation”
…
The Harvard Gazette: President’s Innovation Challenge awards $510,000 across 14 ventures
President Biden sends letter recognizing extraordinary displays of innovation and entrepreneurship
Continue reading
“The Harvard Gazette: President’s Innovation Challenge awards $510,000 across 14 ventures”
…
University of Maryland: A Peek Inside…The Academy for Innovation and Entrepreneurship Office
In Airy Shared Space, Creativity and Collaboration Flourish
Continue reading
“University of Maryland: A Peek Inside…The Academy for Innovation and Entrepreneurship Office”
…
back to top
Skip back to main navigation
Contact Us
Physical Address
292 Main Street | MIT Bldg. E38
Floors 3-7
Cambridge, MA 02142
Building Hours: 9:00 AM – 6:00 PM
Students may
register for after-hours access
.
Mailing Address
400 Main Street
Bldg. E38 – Mailroom 349
Cambridge, MA 02142
Get in touch
iHQ Staff Site
Login
Password protected. If you need a password,
click here
.
About This Site
iHQ is powered by:
Accessibility
Privacy
Use of iHQ does not change the IP ownership terms of the program or activity in which a student or visitor is participating. For more:
Guiding Principles Regarding Student Intellectual Property Rights
Support innovators & entrepreneurs at MIT
GIVE A GIFT
Copyright 2022
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Insta
Twitter
LinkedIn
Facebook
YouTube
Back to top ↑
