http://careers.mit.edu/
Careers | MIT Human Resources
Skip to main content
Menu
Search
Search
image/svg+xml
Careers
Search Open Positions
Discover MIT
Information for Applicants
Current Employees
Benefits
Health & Welfare Plans
Flexible Spending Accounts
Life & Other Insurance
Tuition & Education
Retirement
Time Off & Time Away
Voluntary Benefits
Work & Life
The MIT HR Center for WorkLife and WellBeing
Webinar Series
Child Care
Parenting Children of All Ages
Young Professionals
Adult & Senior Care
Behavioral/Mental Health
Community & Inclusion
Covid-19 Guidance for Employees
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Recognition
Disability Services
Learn & Grow
News & Spotlights
Content For...
Managers
New Employees
Retirees
HR Partners
Frequently Referenced
How Do I...?
Document & Form Library
Life Events
Performance Development
MIT Holidays
Get Help
A self-service hub for your administrative needs
Sign up for classes, review your benefits, check your paystubs, and more.
Careers
Join us in building a better world.
Did you know over 14,000 people work at MIT? Our dynamic environment, distinct culture, and diverse community foster collaboration and excellence in every corner of the Institute. We offer an extensive range of benefits and resources that simply aren't found together anywhere else.
See more about what it's like to be part of the MIT community.
If you’re ready to help us shape the future, there’s a place at MIT for your unique skills, experience, and goals.
MIT was named Forbes magazine's 2023 best large employer in America.
See All Open Positions
External Candidates
Internal Candidates
Featured Jobs
We're actively seeking financial analysts, officers, and administrators. See our open financial and accounting positions and apply today.
Finance Jobs
Vaccine requirement
To safeguard our health and well-being,
MIT requires Covid-19 vaccination for all MIT employees who work in the United States
. New employees must receive all doses in the primary series of the Covid-19 vaccine plus one booster (when eligible) before their date of hire. Individuals may request exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons.
Find out about new job postings
Follow us
Follow @mit_hr on Twitter.
Every Monday, we tweet jobs posted in the prior seven days with links so you can apply easily.
Create a job alert
Let us do the searching for you. Create an account on our portal and set up a job alert. We will send you an email when we find jobs that match your search criteria.
How to create a job alert
Sign in to the MIT Careers portal
or click "Create a new account." (Current MIT employees should use the
internal portal
.)
Click "My Account" (found on the right side of the page)
Click "Job Alerts"
Click "Add"
Set up your search criteria using the various search filters.
Click "Search"
In the "Create a Job Alert" box, enter a job alert name, desired frequency for receiving an email, the date to stop sending emails and the email address to send the alerts to.
Click "Save" (or "Update" if updating an existing alert).
Hint:
Searches by keyword may produce more results than prove helpful. For more targeted searches, use of the functional area field is recommended.
You will receive an email listing the newly posted MIT positions that match your search criteria. The delivery dates will be based on your chosen contact frequency.
Contact
ats-help@mit.edu
with any issues related to job alerts.
In this section
Discover MIT
Discover our full range of benefits designed to keep you healthy, provide work-life balance, build your long-term financial security, and more.
Information for Applicants
Have questions about applying for a position at MIT? Find answers here.
Current Employees
Already work here? Advance your career at MIT by exploring the resources we’ve put together just for you.
MIT is an equal opportunity employer.
We value diversity and strongly encourage applications from individuals from all identities and backgrounds. All qualified applicants will receive equitable consideration for employment based on their experience and qualifications, and will not be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, disability, age, genetic information, veteran status, ancestry, or national or ethnic origin. See MIT's
full policy
on nondiscrimination.
Know your rights.
MIT considers equivalent combinations of experience and education for certain jobs. All candidates who believe they possess equivalent experience and education are encouraged to apply.
MIT is committed to providing for the safety and security of all members of our community. In accordance with the Clery Act, MIT publishes an Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. You may obtain the most recent copy of this report
here
or request a hard copy from the MIT Police.
Labor Condition Application Notifications
These
US Department of Labor required notices
serve to inform interested parties that the Massachusetts Institute of Technology submits applications for H-1B non-immigrants for certain academic and research positions.
How Do I?
From the HR Knowledge Base
How do I find performance development resources?
Visit
Performance Development
to access information on Performance Reviews, the
Performance & Development Review Tool
(PDR), and the Schedule of Reviews.
How do I find out which Career Development resources are available to me?
In addition to exploring
Career Development
, your manager can help you figure out which resources are appropriate to your needs, and available to you.
How do I find job openings for current MIT employees?
Visit
Current Employees
. When you search open positions, you will be directed to sign in to Touchstone (via your MIT certificate or email and
Kerberos
password) to access all internal job openings.
How do I learn about job openings at MIT that aren’t posted on this site?
The MIT Careers site lists staff positions only. Hiring is handled outside of the Human Resources department for the following positions:
Faculty positions: Please contact the appropriate academic department directly.
Student employment: Opportunities for current MIT students and alumni are listed through the
Student Employment Office
or the
Global Education and Career Development office
.
Internships: Please contact the appropriate academic department directly.
How do I apply for a job as an external candidate?
If you discover a
job opening
that interests you, click on Apply Now. You will be directed to create an account, and then directed to the job opening to fill out your application.
Visit the HR Knowledge Base
Exceptional MIT
Discounts & Perks
There are plenty of discounts and perks among the exceptional work and life benefits MIT offers to employees. Are you taking advantage of them?
See Our List
Community News and Spotlights
Meet Gregory Walton, IT Support Engineer
One in an occasional series on  MIT employees.
Learn more
All Community News & Spotlights
Join us in building a better world
Building NE49-5000
600 Technology Square
Cambridge, MA 02139
image/svg+xml
Get Directions
Contact Human Resources
Staff Directory
Twitter
LinkedIn
Careers
Benefits
Work & Life
Community & Inclusion
Content For...
Managers
New Employees
Retirees
HR Partners
Frequently Referenced
How Do I...?
Document & Form Library
Get Help
Life Events
A self-service hub for your administrative needs
Sign up for classes, review your benefits, check your paystubs, and more.
Privacy & Accessibility
Top
