https://news.stanford.edu/2023/03/29/3d-printing-research-stanford/
3D printing research at Stanford | Stanford News
Skip to content
News
Menu
Search form
Search term
Home
Find Stories
For Journalists
Contact
Jonathan Weiss and Jessica Herrmann, members of the Skylar-Scott lab, run a test print using a 3D bioprinter, which allows them to print structures containing living cells.
(Image credit: Andrew Brodhead)
March 29, 2023
3D printing research at Stanford
3D printing offers a world of possibilities, but it has its limitations. Stanford researchers are stretching the boundaries of current printing models and finding innovative ways to solve pressing dilemmas of design, engineering, and medicine.
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
By Shannon Banks
The 3D printer has come a long way since the debut of consumer-friendly printers in the early 2000s. The versatile technology allows designers and engineers to forgo traditional manufacturing, opening up a world of seemingly endless possibilities. But the instrument has its limits. The process can be slow, and most objects can only be built layer by layer – with just one material at a time.
Stanford University researchers are
challenging the limitations of current 3D printing technology
. One innovative printing method is increasing printing speeds by 10x that of the quickest available model and allowing researchers to introduce multiple materials at once. Another group of engineers is using light to carve intricate designs into stationary mounds of resin, hoping to eliminate the need to build from the bottom up.
From creating surprisingly strong nanoscale lattices built to protect fragile satellites to fashioning heart tissue from living cells to combat congenital heart disease, these researchers are exploring the what ifs of this technology. What if our products were more resilient? What if we used biomaterials? And what if we take a moment to consider the inevitable questions that will arise as we move forward with this emerging technology?
A new 3D printing method promises faster, multi-material creations
Engineers have designed a method of 3D printing that is five to 10 times faster than the quickest high-resolution printer currently available.
New nanoscale 3D printing material offers better structural protection
Engineers have designed a new material for nanoscale 3D printing that is able to absorb twice as much energy and could be used to create better lightweight protective lattices.
Is there a better way to do 3D printing?
Engineers at Stanford and Harvard have laid the groundwork for a new 3D printing system that doesn’t require an object to be printed from the bottom up.
Medicine
Building a heart, one layer at a time
Using advanced 3D printing techniques, Mark Skylar-Scott and his team want to transform a paste made of living cells into hearts and other organs.
Engineering a new heart, layer by layer
In the hopes of helping children with congenital heart defects, Mark Skylar-Scott is engineering heart tissue in the lab using advanced 3D printing techniques.
'Metalheads' course teaches scope of materials science and engineering
From ancient coins to 3D printed spaceships, students in the course Metalheads of Science learn about the broad applications of materials science through the lens of metals.
A new approach to vaccinations: 3D printed patches
Researchers published a paper detailing a vaccine patch prototype, demonstrating that the concept was not only feasible but also potentially more effective than injected vaccinations at generating a robust immune response.
Engineering health through 3D printing
Stanford Engineering professors discuss 3D printing and major advances in health care that have resulted from the burgeoning technology – from vaccine patches and nanoscale robots to life-saving heart tissues.
Joseph DeSimone: How 3D printing is changing medicine
With growing precision and new materials, 3D printing stands to reshape health care.
Science & Technology
Touch-based display helps blind people create in three dimensions
Stanford researchers designed a tactile display that aims to make 3D printing and computer-aided design accessible to people who are blind and visually impaired.
Teaching & Students
A novel approach to cardiac surgery
Stanford medical student Kevin Cyr is part of a team of researchers using 3D printing to build custom cardiac surgical devices.
In The Spotlight
Science & Technology
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
What to read next:
Social Sciences
Ten questions to ask before a romantic merger
The most important career decision you’ll make is about whom to marry and what kind of relationship you will have, say Myra Strober and Abby Davisson.
Science & Technology
Counting cars
An algorithm that adjusts tolls based on the number of cars traveling on a road at a given time could improve congestion pricing and reduce traffic.
Law & Policy
Climate-smart agriculture needs better data
A new report emphasizes the need for precise, practical protocols for measuring the climate benefits associated with agricultural practices.
Stanford Report
To receive Stanford news daily,
subscribe to
Stanford Report
.
For Journalists
Press Releases
Media Contacts
Stanford Experts
See Also
Contact Stanford News
Faculty / Staff Resources
Events
Events calendar
Stanford News is a publication of
Stanford University Communications
Stanford Home
Maps & Directions
Search Stanford
Emergency Info
Terms of Use
Privacy
Copyright
Trademarks
Non-Discrimination
Accessibility
©
Stanford University
.
Stanford
,
California
94305
.
