https://news.stanford.edu/report/2022/12/07/in-their-own-words/
In Their Own Words - Stanford Report
Skip to main content
Stanford University
Stanford Report logo
Monday, April 17, 2023
Search this site
Submit Search
Menu
Students
Faculty
Staff
About
Search this site
Submit Search
Credit: Kristina Closs
December 7, 2022
In Their Own Words
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
In Their Own Words is a series in which Stanford faculty reflect on a question or topic they have been grappling with throughout their careers. Each essay is a snapshot of their thoughts and an invitation for us all to learn, ponder, and question alongside them.
This series, which launched in fall 2022, is a collaboration between the
Stanford Public Humanities Initiative
and Stanford University Communications.
If you are a Stanford faculty member (in any discipline or school) interested in contributing to the series, please reach out to Natalie Jabbar at
njabbar@stanford.edu
.
Why do we care about literary characters?
By Blakey Vermeule
For as long as I can remember, I’ve relied on fictional characters to help me steer through the social world.
Now after half a lifetime teaching literature, I walk around inside a vast pantheon of fictional people. I draw on their experiences – occasionally, a fictional character saves me from having to learn something the long, hard way.
Read the full essay.
The power of love at first sight
By Emanuele Lugli
For me, the most fascinating question, the one I return to over and again as it makes the wheels of my brain spin at unprecedented speed, is about the nature of love at first sight.
Does it exist or is it just a collective hallucination?
Read the full essay.
Technology might be making education worse
By Antero Garcia
As a professor of education and a former public school teacher, I’ve seen digital tools change lives in schools.
So I want to tell you that I think technologies are changing education for the better and that we need to invest more in them – but I just can’t.
Read the full essay.
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
What to read next:
Freeman Spogli Institute For International Studies
Marietje Schaake on taming underregulated tech
A decade of experience in the European Parliament has given Marietje Schaake a unique perspective on the threat technology poses to democracy and human rights.
School Of Medicine
Vaccine could improve herd immunity around the world
A low-cost COVID-19 vaccine that doesn’t require refrigeration was found to provide immunity in rhesus monkeys for one year.
Vice Provost For Undergraduate Education
A difficult message about the loss of a beloved student
Vice Provost for Student Affairs Susie Brubaker-Cole shared news of the death of graduate student Jonathan San Miguel in an email to the campus community.
Stanford
Report
News and information for the university community.
Get in touch
Sign up to receive the Stanford Report daily email
Faculty, staff, and students automatically receive Stanford Report emails. Others are invited to
subscribe
.
Stanford
University
Stanford Home
Maps & Directions
Search Stanford
Emergency Info
Terms of Use
Privacy
Copyright
Trademarks
Non-Discrimination
Accessibility
© Stanford University.
Stanford, California 94305.
