https://med.stanford.edu/news/all-news/2023/03/heart-shape-predict-disease.html
Stanford Medicine-led study finds heart shape can predict cardiac disease | News Center | Stanford Medicine
Skip to Content
Skip to Local Navigation
Skip to Global Navigation
Stanford Medicine
News Center
Site Nav
Menu
See us on facebook
See us on twitter
See us on youtube
See us on linkedin
See us on instagram
Stanford Medicine
Explore Stanford Medicine
Health Care
Find a doctor
Adult-care doctor
Pediatrician or pediatric specialist
Obstetrician
Clinics & Services
Adult care
Pediatric care
Obstetrics
Clinical trials
Locations
Stanford Health Care
Stanford Children's Health
Emergency Department
Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency
Explore Health Care
Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion
Back
Research
Basic science departments
Clinical science departments
Institutes
Research centers
See full directory
Research Resources
Research administration
Academic profiles
Clinical trials
Funding opportunities
See all
Professional Training
Postdoctoral scholars
Clinical research fellows
Research News
Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds
Explore Research
Learn how we are fueling innovation
Back
Education
MD program
PA Programs
PhD programs
Masters programs
Continuing Medical Education
Postdoctoral scholars
Residencies & fellowships
High School & Undergraduate Programs
See all
Education Resources
Academic profiles
School Administration
Basic science departments
Clinical science departments
Alumni services
Faculty resources
Diversity programs
Lane Library
Student resources
Education News
Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford
Explore Education
Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders
Back
Give
Support Stanford Medicine
Support teaching, research, and patient care.
Ways to give
Why giving matters
Make a gift online
Support Children's Health
Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health
Ways to give
How your gift helps
Make an online gift
Back
About
About us
News
Contacts
Maps & directions
Leadership
Vision
Diversity
Global health
Community engagement
Events
How you can help
Stanford School of Medicine
Stanford Health Care
Stanford Children's Health
Back
Site Search
Submit Search Query
Toggle Dropdown Menu
Menu
Scope Blog
Stanford Medicine Magazine
Of Note
COVID-19 Updates
Topics
Topics
Administration
Aging
Big Data
Biochemistry
Bioengineering
Cancer
Cardiovascular Health
Chemical Biology
Chronic Disease
COVID-19
Developmental Biology
Education
Genetics
Global Health
Health Policy
Hearing
Imaging
Immunology
Infectious Disease
Mental Health
Neuroscience
Nutrition
Obituaries
Pain
Patient Care
Pediatrics
Precision Health
Preventive Medicine
Sleep
Stem Cells
Surgery
Technology
Transplantation
Urology
Women's Health
Search
Stanford Medicine
News
2023
Data science meets cardiac science
Story
Stanford Medicine-led study finds heart shape can predict cardiac disease
share
While cardiac sphericity was the focus of Stanford Medicine-led research, the possibility of data science expanding the reach of biomedical science was its true core, researchers say.
March 29, 2023
- By Mark Conley
Heart shapes range from elongated to normal to spherical.
Med
A machine learning-aided study on heart shape, led by a researcher at Stanford Medicine, found that sphericity — or roundness — seems to occur more commonly in healthy hearts than previously believed but can also act as a genetic indicator of cardiac problems that lie ahead.
Doctors have long known that a rounder heart, like the one made symbolically popular throughout modern civilization and celebrated with the ubiquitous Valentine’s Day heart shape, actually depicts an organ under duress. But that detail has typically been studied only after the onset of a cardiac condition.
“Most people who practice cardiology are well aware that after someone develops heart disease, the heart will look more spherical,” said
Shoa Clarke,
MD, PhD, preventive cardiologist and an instructor in the
Stanford School of Medicine
’s departments of medicine and pediatrics.
Artificial intelligence allowed the researchers to demonstrate at scale that hearts come in all shapes, including more full and round, even before a troubling clinical diagnosis — and those details can offer important health clues, they maintain.
The
study
, which was published March 29 in Med, revealed new details about the genetic underpinnings of cardiomyopathy, which includes conditions such as heart arrhythmia, known as atrial fibrillation, and congestive heart failure. In atrial fibrillation, the heart beats too quickly, too slowly or in an irregular way; in congestive heart failure, the heart can’t pump enough blood.
Clarke and David Ouyang, MD, of the Smidt Heart Institute of Cedars-Sinai, were senior authors on the study; Milos Vukadinovic, a bioengineering student at UCLA, was the lead author.
Clarke and Ouyang landed upon heart shape after clinical experience showed “variability in the shape and morphology, even when all the standard metrics seem normal,” Clarke said.
They wondered if shape is an important predictive variable of heart health well before a clinical diagnosis. Using images from the UK Biobank, the researchers measured the left-ventricle sphericity of 38,897 otherwise healthy hearts.
They focused on the left ventricle, which is normally cone-shaped, because it is the core part of the muscle, doing the heart’s mechanical heavy lifting, and is especially susceptible to damage. As the pumper of blood throughout the body, it can dilate and become wider or more round over time.
First the researchers used biobank data to show that increased sphericity is a risk factor for developing cardiomyopathy, atrial fibrillation or heart failure, finding that a small increase in roundness was associated with a 47% increase in developing those conditions up to 10 years later.
Then they looked at biobank participants’ health records, studying the genetic markers of both sphericity and those cardiac conditions, and discovered an overlap.
They concluded that intrinsic disease of the heart muscle — meaning damage not suffered during a heart attack — triggered sphericity in the left ventricle, even before heart disease has made itself known.
Shoa Clarke
The presence of increased sphericity, the researchers concluded, may “identify individuals with underlying molecular/cellular abnormalities that place them at heightened risk for developing overt cardiomyopathy or related diseases such as atrial fibrillation.”
If shape were to become more of a baseline detail collected in clinical settings, Clarke explained, “We may start to see changes in the sphericity that are indicative of someone already going down that path of developing a heart problem.”
Medical imaging a rich source of info
The proof-of-concept learnings on cardiac sphericity was only one take-away for Clarke, who said the existing MRI imagery of the cardiovascular system, such as the samples they used, could provide a deep reservoir of previously unexplored scientific clues for all kinds of new studies.
“The main point I’m trying to make with this study is that there is information in current medical imaging that’s not being used,” Clarke said.
Clarke and Ouyang — who met and became friends as Stanford Medicine cardiology fellows — are as pointedly focused on data science as they are on biomedical science. They said artificial intelligence, while a much-talked-about, tech-spawned advancement, has yet to bear firm results in the field.
“There is broad enthusiasm for using artificial intelligence, biobanks and genomics to accelerate biomedical research,” Clarke said. “Yet, the number of practicing clinicians who have the technical skills to lead such research is still relatively small.”
Their report noted a lack of racial diversity within the UK Biobank as one of the study’s limitations. Clarke said diversity will remain an issue, especially in large biobanks, until the systems in place target improvement. “For imaging studies, this was a very large number,” Clarke said. “But one problem with it being the only source of such large-scale data is that it lacks diversity.”
The data was also collected as part of a study, not from a clinic, which avoids a bias toward those who are seeing a physician because of a problem.
It should be noted, Clarke said, that an increase in sphericity doesn’t necessarily portend a serious condition down the line. The majority of people in their study cohort who had a degree of sphericity did not go on to develop any clinical disease, at least in the follow-up period, which in some cases extended up to a decade.
“It’s not a guarantee that having high sphericity means you will have some clinical manifestation,” he said. “It’s just a marker for people who are at higher risk. Other factors could be at play.”
The next frontier could be heart conditions beyond cardiomyopathy, Clarke said, anything “relevant to any of the main categories of heart disease, which include things like rhythm disturbances, valve diseases and vascular diseases like coronary artery disease.”
“I think all of those categories could benefit from learning new ways of looking at images and trying to pull more information out of those images than we currently do,” he said.
“There’s a lot more information available than what physicians are currently using,” Ouyang told
Med
. “And just as we’ve previously known that a bigger heart isn’t always better, we’re learning that a more-round heart is also not better.”
This study was funded by the National Institutes of Health (grants K99-HL157421 and KL2TR003143).
Mark Conley
Mark Conley is an associate editor in the Office of Communications. Email him at
mjconley@stanford.edu
.
Media Contacts
Mark Conley
mjconley@stanford.edu
About Stanford Medicine
Stanford Medicine
is an integrated academic health system comprising the
Stanford School of Medicine
and adult and pediatric health care delivery systems. Together, they harness the full potential of biomedicine through collaborative research, education and clinical care for patients. For more information, please visit
med.stanford.edu
.
Related News
January 5, 2022
Stanford surgeon saves guardsman’s life with complex heart procedure
For patients like Nathan Foss, Stanford’s expertise in rare and complicated heart surgeries provides better options.
November 4, 2021
For severe heart disease, bypass surgery slightly better than stenting — with caveats, study finds
Topics
Big Data
Cardiovascular Health
All Topics
Stanford Medicine Magazine
2023 ISSUE 1
Real-world health
How social factors make or break us
News Center
News Center
Office of Communications
For Journalists
For Faculty & Staff
School Policies
Contacts
News Sources
Scope Blog
Stanford Medicine Magazine
Stanford Health Care Newsroom
Stanford Children's Health Newsroom
Stanford School of Medicine
About
Contact
Maps & Directions
Careers
Basic Science Departments
Clinical Science Departments
Academic Programs
Vision
Find People
Visit Stanford
Search Clinical Trials
Give a Gift
©
2023
Stanford Medicine
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
See us on Facebook
See us on Twitter
Stanford University
Stanford School of Medicine
Stanford Health Care
Stanford Children's Health
Stanford Health Care Tri-Valley
Stanford Medicine Partners
