https://news.stanford.edu/report/2023/04/17/five-stanford-undergraduates-named-2023-goldwater-scholars/
Five Stanford undergraduates named 2023 Goldwater Scholars - Stanford Report
Skip to main content
Stanford University
Stanford Report logo
Monday, April 17, 2023
Search this site
Submit Search
Menu
Students
Faculty
Staff
About
Search this site
Submit Search
April 17, 2023
Five Stanford undergraduates named 2023 Goldwater Scholars
The national award is designed to encourage outstanding students to pursue research careers in the fields of the natural sciences, engineering, and mathematics.
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
By Eric Van Danen
2023 Goldwater Scholars. From left to right: Emily Snell, Angelina Chan, Benjamin Przybocki, Xiaomian Yang, and Jenny Shi.
(Image credit: Andrew Brodhead)
Five Stanford undergraduates have been awarded the 2023 Barry Goldwater Scholarships, designed to foster and encourage outstanding students to pursue research careers in the fields of the natural sciences, engineering, and mathematics.
This year’s recipients—all Stanford juniors—are Angelina Chan, Benjamin Przybocki, Jenny Shi, Emily Snell, and Xiaomian Yang.
A total of 413 Goldwater Scholars were selected this year based on academic merit from a field of more than 5,000 applicants nationwide.
Each Goldwater Scholar receives a sum equal to the cost of tuition, mandatory fees, books, and room and board, up to a maximum of $7,500 per year. Students who receive the award as sophomores receive support for up to two years; students who receive the award as juniors receive support for up to one year.
“I’ve always been fascinated by puzzles, and math is the ultimate collection of puzzles,” said Przybocki, who is majoring in mathematics. “To me, there are few experiences that compare to the joy of mathematical discovery, especially after being absorbed in a problem for months. When these beautiful puzzles have real-world applications, it makes them all the more fulfilling.”
Chan, a human biology major, said, “I’ve always loved to ask questions about everything around me – the best application of which is asking the unanswered questions on what makes the natural world around us ‘work.’ There really is so much more to discover in the biosciences, and I can’t wait to explore even more in the future.”
Snell, who is majoring in earth and planetary sciences, added, “Being recognized as a Goldwater Scholar not only validates the passion and hard work I have poured into my research, but it also feels like a win for my family and hometown. I applied for the same reason that I applied to Stanford, to prove that great scientists come from diverse and non-traditional backgrounds.”
The Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation was established by Congress in 1986 to serve as a living memorial to honor the lifetime work of the late U.S. Senator Barry Goldwater (1909-1998), who served for nearly six decades as a soldier and respected leader, including 30 years in the U.S. Senate.
Stanford’s Goldwater Scholarship winners for 2023:
Angelina Chan
is a human biology major originally from Long Grove, Illinois, whose family now lives in Rocklin, California. Chan plans to obtain both an M.D. and Ph.D. pursuing graduate study in genetics, and to eventually become a physician-scientist, research molecular-level regulation of gene expression, teach at the university level, and mentor the next generation of scientists.
Benjamin Przybocki
is a mathematics major from Austin, Texas. Przybocki plans to pursue a Ph.D. in theoretical computer science leading to a research career studying automated reasoning and formal methods, bridging the gap between the theory and applications of formal logic.
Jenny Shi
is a chemistry major from Palo Alto, California.
Shi is planning to pursue a Ph.D. in chemical & computational biology with a focus on neuroscience. Jenny’s career goal is to teach at the university level and to research how molecular changes in the brain affect neuronal circuitry and behavior in learning and memory.
Emily Snell
is an earth and planetary sciences major from Butler, Ohio. Snell aims to obtain a Ph.D. in geochemical volcanology, conduct volcanology research, develop intersectional modes of eruption prediction, teach at the university level and mentor first-generation students.
Xiaomian Yang
is a materials science and engineering major from San Jose, California. Yang’s career goal is to obtain a Ph.D. in materials science and engineering, teach at the university level, and to conduct research in novel materials discovery for sustainability applications at the intersection of academia and industry.
Awards & Honors
Vice Provost For Undergraduate Education
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
What to read next:
Freeman Spogli Institute For International Studies
Marietje Schaake on taming underregulated tech
A decade of experience in the European Parliament has given Marietje Schaake a unique perspective on the threat technology poses to democracy and human rights.
School Of Medicine
Vaccine could improve herd immunity around the world
A low-cost COVID-19 vaccine that doesn’t require refrigeration was found to provide immunity in rhesus monkeys for one year.
Vice Provost For Undergraduate Education
A difficult message about the loss of a beloved student
Vice Provost for Student Affairs Susie Brubaker-Cole shared news of the death of graduate student Jonathan San Miguel in an email to the campus community.
Stanford
Report
News and information for the university community.
Get in touch
Sign up to receive the Stanford Report daily email
Faculty, staff, and students automatically receive Stanford Report emails. Others are invited to
subscribe
.
Stanford
University
Stanford Home
Maps & Directions
Search Stanford
Emergency Info
Terms of Use
Privacy
Copyright
Trademarks
Non-Discrimination
Accessibility
© Stanford University.
Stanford, California 94305.
