https://humsci.stanford.edu/feature/trustees-set-approve-creation-department-african-and-african-american-studies-fall-meeting
Trustees set to approve creation of Department of African and African American Studies at fall meeting | Stanford Humanities and Sciences
Skip to main content
Latest information about COVID-19
Dismiss alert
Search
Search
Toggle main menu visibility
Mobile site main navigation
Prospective Students
Guide on Getting Into Grad School
A Message from Dean Debra Satz
Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs
Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline
Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs
Funding Graduate Studies
Preparing Your Applications
Writing Your Personal Statements
Requesting Recommendation Letters
Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty
How Your Application Is Reviewed
Making Your Final Decision
Additional Resources
H&S Summer Research Programs
Current Students
Diversity Resources and Programs
Fellowships and Funding
CUNY Exchange Program
Sterling Award for Undergraduates
Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs
WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students)
Academics and Research
Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates
Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford
Careers of Humanities Alumni
News
COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news
Events
About
H&S Dean
Dean's Message
Past Dean's Messages
Dean's Initiatives
Diversity and Inclusion
H&S Council
Senior Associate Deans
Administrative Leads
Staff
National and International Awards
American Academy of Arts and Sciences
MacArthur Fellowship
National Academy of Sciences
National Humanities Medal
National Medal of Science
Nobel Prize
Pulitzer Prize
H&S Dean's Teaching Awards
H&S History
H&S Past Deans
Stanford Land Acknowledgment
Giving
Ways to Give
Annual Giving to Graduate Education
Support World-Class Faculty
Strengthen Graduate Scholarship
Enhance the Arts
Globalize the Curriculum
Transform Science Education and Research
Expand Our Understanding of the Universe
Desktop site main navigation
Prospective Students
Current Students
Academics and Research
News
Events
About
Giving
Trustees set to approve creation of Department of African and African American Studies at fall meeting
Ato Quayson, whose research interests include African postcolonial literature, modern diaspora studies, and urban studies, will become chair of the new department when it officially opens in January 2024.
April 5, 2023
The Board of Trustees is expected this fall to approve the creation of a department of African and African American studies.
“Stanford has made real strides in attracting and retaining a stellar group of scholars whose work focuses on African American and African history, art, religion, and literature, and the new department will build on their strengths,” said
Debra Satz
, the Vernon R. and Lysbeth Warren Anderson Dean of the
School of Humanities and Sciences
. While the department may expand its scope in the future to encompass some scholars in the social sciences, she added, it will begin with research and teaching focused in the humanities and arts.
Ato Quayson. Photo by Harrison Truong for Stanford University.
The department will officially open in January 2024.
Ato Quayson
, the Jean G. and Morris M. Doyle Professor in Interdisciplinary Studies and chair of the
Department of English
in the School of Humanities and Sciences, will serve as its inaugural chair.
For more than 50 years, the university has maintained a Program in African and African American Studies, initially called the Program in African and Afro-American Studies. Its first director was the sociologist and anthropologist John Gibbs St. Clair Drake. In 2020, a groundswell of student and faculty support for the departmentalization of AAAS followed in the wake of the killing of George Floyd. In 2021, a task force convened by Provost Persis Drell and Satz
recommended the creation of a department
.
As a department, AAAS will be able to hire and appoint faculty members. Several current faculty members have already agreed to joint appointments in the department, which will begin the search to fill two new faculty positions this fall. Over the next decade, the plan is to bring the department roster up to the equivalent of about 13 full-time faculty positions.
Quayson has been a key architect of the proposed department. He chaired the committee that issued a report with recommendations for its funding, staffing, faculty hiring, curriculum, and major and minor requirements.
“I’m delighted that Ato has agreed to chair this new department,” Satz said. “He has been an excellent chair and advocate for the English Department, and the knowledge he has acquired directing and building up academic centers at the University of Toronto and University of Cambridge lends itself to the needs of a newly minted academic department. Ato is an incredibly accomplished scholar, a public goods creator, and a visionary.”
Quayson said he is honored to be leading the new enterprise and hopes that it will have a significant impact on the intellectual and cultural life of the university. He envisions the department as “a hub for understanding America in a new way,” noting that “American” in the department’s title is meant to refer not just to the United States but to North America, Central America, South America, and the Caribbean. He also said he would encourage students and scholars in the department to consider studying the African diaspora in other parts of the world—“Black Paris, Black Berlin, the Black diaspora in Italy.”
“I want AAAS to become a hub for fresh ideas,” he said. “I want to cultivate an intellectual environment that is expansive and variegated.”
He pointed to his recent book,
Tragedy and Postcolonial Literature
(Cambridge University Press, 2021), as an example of the kind of capacious, comparativist scholarship he hopes can flourish in the department. In that book, Quayson traces tragedy from the ancient Greeks to the present day, touching on the work of Aristotle, Shakespeare, Toni Morrison, Samuel Beckett, J.M. Coetzee, and Chinua Achebe, among many other writers.
“In my scholarly work, I try to accommodate many different perspectives, and I plan to lead the department in the same way,” he said. “I want to create an environment in which everyone feels a sense of place and belonging is possible. You could be Greek. You could be Korean. You could be Latinx. Of course, its natural constituency will be Black folk. But I want the place to be crafted in such a way that everyone can feel an identification with its academic purpose.”
From Cambridge to Stanford
Quayson joined the Stanford faculty in 2019. Previously, he was on the faculty at New York University and at the University of Toronto, where he also served as founding director of the Centre for Diaspora and Transnational Studies. From 1995 to 2005, he taught literature at the University of Cambridge, where he earned tenure and served as director of the Centre of African Studies.
Quayson has written six monographs, including the award-winning
Oxford Street, Accra: City Life and the Itineraries of Transnationalism
(Duke University Press, 2014) and
Tragedy and Postcolonial Literature
, which was the recipient of the
2021 Robert Penn Warren-Cleanth Brooks Award
for literary scholarship and criticism. He has edited or co-edited eight collections and is co-editing two collections set for publication this year:
The City in World Literature
, with Jini Kim Watson (Cambridge University Press, 2023), and
Decolonizing the English Literary Curriculum
, with Ankhi Mukherjee (Cambridge University Press, 2023). Since coming to Stanford, he has taught courses on urban studies, African literature, postcolonial tragedy, and the works of Toni Morrison. In the winter quarter, he co-taught a graduate course on philosophy and literature with
R. Lanier Anderson
, the J. E. Wallace Sterling Professor in the Humanities and professor of philosophy. Quayson believes firmly in interdisciplinary collaboration across a wide range of interests.
By John Sanford
Faculty
Interdisciplinary
University Affairs
Apr 14, 2023
2023 cohort of Stanford Science Fellows named
Awards
Interdisciplinary
Natural Sciences
Mar 28, 2023
The Gospel of J. Edgar Hoover: How the FBI Aided and Abetted the Rise of White Christian Nationalism by Lerone A. Martin, Religious Studies
Faculty
Humanities
Mar 13, 2023
The Forest: A Fable of America in the 1830s by Alexander Nemerov, Art and Art History
Arts
Faculty
Humanities
Mar 13, 2023
Knots, or the Violence of Desire in Renaissance Florence by Emanuele Lugli, Art and Art History
Arts
Faculty
About
The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines.
Learn more about H&S
Footer Social Links
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
H&S resources
Facilities and Capital Planning
Faculty Affairs
Finance
Graduate and Undergraduate Studies
Human Resources
Information Technology
Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness
Public Relations
Research Administration
Contact Us
Building 1, Main Quad
450 Jane Stanford Way
Stanford, CA 94305-2070
Phone: 650-723-2275
Fax: 650-723-3235
Footer Contact Links
hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu
Campus Map
University resources
Report a website problem
Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy
Stanford University
Stanford footer: Top links
Stanford Home
Maps & Directions
Search Stanford
Emergency Info
Stanford footer: Bottom links
Terms of Use
Privacy
Copyright
Trademark
Non-Discrimination
Accessibility
© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305
