http://mednews.stanford.edu/staff/
Serving our colleagues | Office of Communications | Stanford Medicine
Skip to Content
Skip to Local Navigation
Skip to Global Navigation
Stanford Medicine
Office of Communications
Site Nav
Menu
See us on facebook
See us on youtube
See us on twitter
See us on flickr
See us on instagram
Office of Communications
Stanford Medicine
Explore Stanford Medicine
Health Care
Find a doctor
Adult-care doctor
Pediatrician or pediatric specialist
Obstetrician
Clinics & Services
Adult care
Pediatric care
Obstetrics
Clinical trials
Locations
Stanford Health Care
Stanford Children's Health
Emergency Department
Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency
Explore Health Care
Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion
Back
Research
Basic science departments
Clinical science departments
Institutes
Research centers
See full directory
Research Resources
Research administration
Academic profiles
Clinical trials
Funding opportunities
See all
Professional Training
Postdoctoral scholars
Clinical research fellows
Research News
Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds
Explore Research
Learn how we are fueling innovation
Back
Education
MD program
PA Programs
PhD programs
Masters programs
Continuing Medical Education
Postdoctoral scholars
Residencies & fellowships
High School & Undergraduate Programs
See all
Education Resources
Academic profiles
School Administration
Basic science departments
Clinical science departments
Alumni services
Faculty resources
Diversity programs
Lane Library
Student resources
Education News
Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford
Explore Education
Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders
Back
Give
Support Stanford Medicine
Support teaching, research, and patient care.
Ways to give
Why giving matters
Make a gift online
Support Children's Health
Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health
Ways to give
How your gift helps
Make an online gift
Back
About
About us
News
Contacts
Maps & directions
Leadership
Vision
Diversity
Global health
Community engagement
Events
How you can help
Stanford School of Medicine
Stanford Health Care
Stanford Children's Health
Back
Site Search
Submit Search Query
How we can help you
The Office of Communications provides a wide range of communications services for faculty, physicians, staff and students. We can help you promote ongoing projects, exciting discoveries, notable accomplishments or patient stories. From advances in basic sciences to research-recruitment efforts to human-interest stories about the exceptional people within the Stanford Health Care and the School of Medicine, the
content
we produce and the stories we pitch to media span the field of biomedicine.
Contacting the Office of Communications
To make the most of our services, please feel free to
contact us
. We welcome news regarding papers pending publication, recently launched research projects, clinical advances, patient stories, newly awarded grants or upcoming events.
If you are contacting us about an upcoming research paper, please provide a short summary describing the paper's key findings, the name of the journal in which it will appear and the expected date of publication. If at all possible, please let us know about your research or project two to four weeks before the expected publication date.
In presenting your story idea to us, please consider the following:
Does the result represent a significant advance in your field, or is it incremental? Are bigger results expected soon?
Is there an interesting angle that will capture the public’s interest, such as an unexpected finding or a practical application?
How does your research fit into other previous or ongoing work at Stanford Medicine or the university at large?
Does your team have strong visuals (images, graphics, or video), or is there an opportunity to create strong visuals, to help tell the story?
Getting publicity
After discussing your needs, we will devise a strategy to share the information with the appropriate audiences. This may include, working with journalists to initiate news coverage, writing and distributing a press release and/or sharing the news through our award-winning publications and popular social media channels, including:
Stanford Medicine News Center
Scope blog
Stanford Medicine magazine
Facebook page
@StanfordMed Twitter feed
Instagram
YouTube channel
SoundCloud
Throughout this process, our
writers
and
media-relations specialists
will consult with you to ensure the most accurate representation of your work, and offer media training and advice on effectively connecting with media.
Following the School of Medicine in the news
Every business day, our office publishes Stanford Medicine in the News, a summary of web, print and broadcast media stories featuring Stanford Medicine faculty, physicians, students and staff. To subscribe to this digest or to submit any missed news items, please email
officeofcommunications@stanford.edu
.
Using the School of Medicine name and logo
The Stanford University School of Medicine name and logo are well-established and carry valuable brand equity. The School of Medicine logo may be used in conjunction with academic and research-related events without permission. If, however, the logo will appear externally (outside of Stanford), a description of how the logo will be used must be submitted to the Dean's Office for review. Additional information is available in the Stanford School of Medicine
Logo & Name Use Guide
.
Have a story suggestion?
Fill out this form
Office of Communications
What We Do
Who We Are
Media Resources
For Faculty & Staff
Social Media Guidelines
Office of Communications
Stanford Medicine
News
Events
Careers
Contact
Health Care
Stanford Health Care
Stanford Children's Health
Stanford School of Medicine
About
Contact
Maps & Directions
Careers
Basic Science Departments
Clinical Science Departments
Academic Programs
Vision
Find People
Visit Stanford
Search Clinical Trials
Give a Gift
©
2023
Stanford Medicine
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
See us on Facebook
See us on Twitter
Stanford University
Stanford School of Medicine
Stanford Health Care
Stanford Children's Health
Stanford Health Care Tri-Valley
Stanford Medicine Partners
