http://ucomm.stanford.edu/facstaff/
For Faculty & Staff | University Communications
Skip to content
University Communications
Menu
Search form
Search term
Home
News & Publications
For Journalists
For Faculty & Staff
Policies
Contact Us
For Faculty & Staff
University Communications can assist faculty and staff with a variety of communications and media issues:
Provide help when a reporter calls
The Office of University Communications is staffed by professional journalists with extensive experience working with the media. Our office works with all media, including on-campus publications, local, national and international press. We issue press releases, organize press conferences and handle media relations for Stanford.  We can assist you in publicizing news that has a university connection.
Read more about
working with the media
, or contact the News Service at (650) 723-2558 for assistance.
Publicize an event or make a campus announcement
University Communications can also help you to publicize events and make announcements.
Stanford Report
is an email sent every weekday to approximately 35,000 faculty, staff and other subscribers. Stanford  organizations may
purchase display advertisements
in
Stanford Report
.  For more information on announcements, contact Charity Ferreira,
charityf(at)stanford.edu
.
University Communications also maintains the
Stanford Event Calendar
, which allows you to publicize your events on the university website.
Manage the media at your event
Having media cover your event often requires special expertise. High profile visitors may have security concerns and reporters may have particular equipment or seating needs. University Communications regularly partners with the
Office of Special Events and Protocol (OSEP)
to ensure that these issues are addressed in the early planning stages.  For more information contact the News Service at (650)723-2558.
Communications policies
University Communications has oversight of
policies regarding a variety of communications and media related topics
, including filming and photography on campus and use of the university name, seal, and logos.
Identity Toolkit
The
Stanford Identity Toolkit
provides information about how to use the Stanford signature, emblems, fonts, colors and photos in your print and online projects.
Communicators Shared Resources
The
Communicators Shared Resources
site offers curated information and resources for communicators at Stanford, helping you benefit from the experience and recommendations of fellow communicators at the University.
Stanford on iTunes U and YouTube
Information about how to
contribute audio and video content to Stanford’s iTunes U and YouTube channels
.
Web resources
The
University Communications Web Team
can provide advice on creating and maintaining your university website, using campus resources for web design and development, or when appropriate, selecting a vendor for a web project.
Video production
Stanford Video
, the university’s video production unit, serves the campus and community from state-of-the-art studios located on campus.
News Service Library
The
News Service Library
can help faculty and staff find archived
Stanford Report
articles, press releases and photographs.
SALLIE Image Database
SALLIE
(Stanford ALL-Image Exchange) is Stanford’s campus-wide system for managing and sharing digital photographs used in communications.
Stanford Report
Delivers news and information about the Stanford community via email each weekday.
Subscribe
|
Suggest a story
Faculty and Staff News
Read our
Stanford news for faculty and staff
.
The Dish
The
Dish blog
highlights Stanford people on the move and in the spotlight.
More About Us
The Office of University Communications provides information about Stanford University; coordinates the university's public and media relations efforts; and produces the university's main web pages, social media channels and central publications.
Contact Us
Our staff
Map & directions
Connect with Stanford
Stanford Home
Maps & Directions
Search Stanford
Emergency Info
Terms of Use
Privacy
Copyright
Trademarks
Non-Discrimination
Accessibility
©
Stanford University
,
Stanford
,
California
94305
.
