https://news.stanford.edu/report/
Stanford Report
Skip to main content
Stanford University
Stanford Report logo
Monday, April 17, 2023
Search this site
Submit Search
Menu
Students
Faculty
Staff
About
Search this site
Submit Search
ZZZ – DO NOT EDIT – Front Page
Featured stories
Athletics
Stanford wins fourth consecutive NCAA men’s gymnastics title
Stanford led from start to finish on the way to winning its fourth consecutive NCAA men's gymnastics championship, on Saturday at Penn State's Rec Hall.
1 day ago
Q&A
Marti McCaleb on the work of Stanford’s SHARE/Title IX Office
The new deputy Title IX coordinator discusses the resources offered by the office and some of the challenges of working in this field.
8 hours ago
Course close up
‘Principled Entrepreneurial Decisions’ teaches students to develop their ethical compass
A Stanford engineering course shows students how relying on principles and values can guide them through difficult professional and personal situations.
3 days ago
University Affairs
Faculty Senate hears proposed changes to Honor Code, Judicial Charter
The Faculty Senate heard a presentation from the Committee of 12 on proposed changes to the two university policies during its Thursday meeting, as well as a dean’s report from the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability.
4 days ago
From the President & Provost
A message on graduate student unionization
1 week ago
Marc Tessier-Lavigne, President
Welcome to spring quarter
2 weeks ago
Marc Tessier-Lavigne, President
More messages from leadership
Are they sentient? Are they safe? Will they take my job?
Stanford PhD student Eric Mitchell answers the internet’s questions on AI chatbots
Announcements
Three Row houses have new names:
In autumn quarter, neighborhood councils invited Row houses known by their street addresses to propose new names for themselves. Here are
the new names
for those houses that submitted proposals.
Cardinal Care health insurance update:
Vaden Health Services has posted the
2023-24 rates and enhancements
. Sutter Health will be added as an in-network provider. The Financial Aid Office assists undergraduates with demonstrated financial need to cover the cost of Cardinal Care. Stanford provides a 100% subsidy for Cardinal Care for
PhD and some masters students
. The
Graduate Family Grant
and
Graduate Student Aid Fund
can help cover the cost of health insurance for students, children, and spouses/registered domestic partners.
Data security incident:
A recent data security incident experienced by a vendor, Brightline, affects Stanford group health plan participants with dependents under the age of 18. The company will begin notifying affected individuals on or around April 7, 2023.
COVID Policies
Surveillance testing for students
will end June 18, at the end of spring quarter.
Free rapid tests
remain available for students and employees. Faculty, staff, and postdocs should continue reporting positive test results on
Health Check
, and students should do so on the
Vaden patient portal
.
Stanford strongly recommends wearing masks
indoors, including in classrooms and instructional spaces, and outdoors in crowded settings. Individual instructors may require masks in their classrooms and will post expectations on Canvas. Masks continue to be required in healthcare facilities including Vaden Health Center.
Community members are encouraged to stay up to date on COVID immunizations, particularly the
bivalent booster
.
More
Research
Artificial intelligence
A simple algorithm could improve congestion pricing and reduce traffic
4 days ago
Law & Policy
Report on advancing climate-smart agriculture urges better data practices
4 days ago
Stanford News
Americans are getting better at spotting false news
4 days ago
In the News
Why the right song can immediately put you in a good mood
ABC News
Scientists turned monkey stem cells into ‘synthetic embryos’
Wired
Self-charging battery battles tumors in mice
The Scientist
‘War on drugs’ deja vu: Fentanyl overdoses spur states to seek tougher laws
Washington Post
More Stories
campus events
KIPAC celebrates 20 years of research with community day
1 week ago
Awards & honors
Three Stanford scholars awarded Guggenheim Fellowships
1 week ago
Women’s History Month
Six Stanford women on what it means – and what it takes – to lead
2 weeks ago
Sustainability
Dean Arun Majumdar provides an update on his listening tour
2 weeks ago
Campus Resources
COVID-19
Health Alerts
HEALTH & WELLNESS
BeWell
ONLINE TECHNOLOGY
University IT
CAMPUS SAFETY
Department of Public Safety
PARKING & TRANSPORTATION
Stanford Transportation
Upcoming Events
More Events
Stanford
Report
News and information for the university community.
Get in touch
Sign up to receive the Stanford Report daily email
Faculty, staff, and students automatically receive Stanford Report emails. Others are invited to
subscribe
.
Stanford
University
Stanford Home
Maps & Directions
Search Stanford
Emergency Info
Terms of Use
Privacy
Copyright
Trademarks
Non-Discrimination
Accessibility
© Stanford University.
Stanford, California 94305.
